This is Jocko podcast number 101 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening.
Second.
Lieutenant Bernard at Wilfrid long was a smart young man who went to Birmingham
University at age of 16 back in 1912 he was commissioned in the West Yorkshire
Regimen in January of 1916 and Bernard or burn as his family called him,
served in World War One in France and he wrote this letter to his father in
early August of 1916 he said,
we've been having it awfully wet here during the last day or two and my word
talk about mud.
It's simply awful.
I get into mud up to my knees.
I can take a sporting risk as well as any of them and shells have got no fear
for me.
I've seen great big burly chaps who do nothing but curse and drink and get down
and pray like a child when there is a bombardment on and they don't care who
sees them and no one dares to joke about it.
I've just heard it from a pal of mine from Brockton who went down to the Somme
when I came here and he says he's been over the lid seven times in attacks on
the bush line.
Pretty awful.
That isn't it.
And I marvel,
he's alive to tell the tale.
He wrote another letter to his mother on August 11th,
I am off by an early train tomorrow for the rest bill.
It's behind the firing line where we shall be for a time to get to know our men,
et cetera.
Yeah,
I am going up with two pals and we are all pleased.
I shall think of you all while I'm up there and no you won't forget me.
We're fighting hard now and is this serious game.
We're all ready to lay down everything if need be and if God wills on ready
so goodbye and wished me luck.
Your loving son burn
and second Lieutenant Bernard Wilford long was killed in action at age 21
at the battle of laying mark on August 16th,
1917 400 men from his battalion went into action.
All 10 of the officers from the battalion died
along with 264 of the men
on September 11th,
there's another young man,
Sergeant David Kerr at American who dropped out of Columbia University to fight
in World War One.
He sent a letter to his mother the day before the attack
on St meal in France
and he wrote tomorrow the first totally American drive commences and it gives me
inexpressible joy and pride to know that I shall be present to do my share
should I go under.
Therefore,
I want you to know that I went without any terror of death and that my chief
worry is the grief my death will bring to those so dear to me.
Since having found myself and Mary,
there has been much to make life suite and glorious,
but death while distasteful is in no way terrible.
I feel wonderfully strong to do my share well,
and for my sake,
you must try to drown your sorrow in the pride and satisfaction.
The knowledge that I died well and so clean a cause as is ours should bring you
remember how proud I have always been of your superb pluck.
Keep Elizabeth's future in mind and don't permit my death to bow your head.
My personal belongings will all be sent to you.
You're good taste will tell you which to send to Mary.
May God bless and keep you dear heart and be kind to little Elizabeth and those
others I loved so well.
David,
the end
and while the Americans actually broke through the German lines in the attack,
a suffered 7,000 casualties in 72 hours of fighting and 20 year old,
20 year old David Kerr was among the dead.
And
that attitude,
that attitude where death is not feared,
we can find examples of it in so many different places.
A great example is from the American civil war,
from a man by the name of Bob Lou.
Now after the battle at Fort Sumner in 1861 president Lincoln called on the
stage to form up militia troops to put down the rebellion
and Sullivan Ballou who was born in Rhode Island was one of those volunteers and
he was commissioned to major in the second Rhode Island Infantry Regiment.
He was third in command
and the second Rhode Island infantry regimen
move to Washington.
Okay.
And joined the Union army of North Eastern Virginia.
And on the 14th of July,
1861 from Washington
Sullivan wrote his wife a letter and here are some excerpts from that letter.
Okay.
My very dear Sarah,
the indications are very strong that we shall move in a few days.
Perhaps tomorrow,
lest I should not be able to write you again.
I feel impelled to write lines that may fall under your eye when I shall be no
more.
Our movement may be one of a few days,
duration and full of pleasure,
and it may be one of severe conflict at death to me.
Okay?
Not My will,
but vine.
Oh God.
Be Done.
If it is necessary that I should fall on the battlefield from my country.
I am ready.
Yeah.
I have no misgivings about or lack of confidence in the cause in which I am
engaged and my courage does not halt or falter.
Yeah.
I know how strongly American civilization now leans upon the triumph of the
government and how great a debt we owe to those who went before us through the
blood and suffering of the revolution.
And I am willing,
perfectly willing to lay down all my joys in this life to help maintain this
government and to pay that debt.
But my dear wife,
when I know that with my own joys,
I laid down nearly all of yours and replaced them in this life with cares and
sorrows.
When after having eaten for long years,
the bitter fruit of orphanage myself,
I must offer it as their only sustenance to my dear little children.
Is it weak or dishonorable?
While the banner of my purpose floats calmly and proudly in the breeze that my
unbounded love for you,
my darling wife and children should struggle in fierce though useless contest
with my love of country.
I cannot describe to you my feelings on this calm summer night when 2000 men are
sleeping around me.
Many of them enjoying their last perhaps before that of death.
And I suspicious that death is creeping behind me with his fatal dart and
communing with God.
My country in you,
Sarah.
My love for you is deaf was it seems to bind me to you with mighty cables that
nothing but the omnipotence could break.
Okay.
And yet
my love of country comes over me like a strong wind and bears me irresistibly on
with these chains to the battlefield.
Okay.
The memories of blissful moments I've spent with you come creeping over me and I
feel most gratified to God and to you that I've enjoyed them so long.
Yeah.
And hard.
It is for me to give them up and burned to ashes.
The hopes of future years when God willing,
we might still have lived in love together and seen or sons grow up honorable to
manhood around us.
Yeah,
I have,
I know,
but few small claims upon divine providence,
but something whispers to me.
Perhaps it is wafted.
Perhaps it is the wafted prayer of my little Edgar.
Okay.
That I shall return to my loved ones on harmed
if I do not my dear Sara,
never forget how much I love you and when my last breath escapes me on the
battlefield,
it will whisper your name.
Okay.
Forgive my many faults in the many pains I've caused you.
How faultless and foolish I've oftentimes been.
How gladly would I wash out with my tears?
Every little spot upon your happiness and struggle with all the misfortune of
this world to shield you and my children from harm.
But I cannot.
I must have watched you from the spirit land and hover near you while you buffet
the storms with your precious little freight and wait with sad patients till we
meet to park.
No more,
but oh,
Sarah,
if the dead can come back to this earth and flit unseen around those they love,
I shall always be near you
and the garish day and in the darkest night,
your happiest scenes and gloomiest hours.
Always,
always.
And if there be a soft breeze upon your cheek,
hit Shelby,
my breath.
Okay.
Or if cool air fans,
you're throbbing temple.
Yeah.
It shall be my spirit passing by
Sarah.
Do not mourn me dead.
Think I am gone and wait for the
yeah,
for we shall meet again.
As for my little boys,
they will grow as I have done and never know a father's love and care.
Yeah.
Little Willy is too young to remember me long and my blue eyed Edgar will keep
my frolics with him amongst the dimmest memories of his childhood.
Yeah.
Sarah,
I have unlimited confidence in your maternal care and your development of their
characters.
I call God's blessing upon them.
Okay.
Oh Sarah,
I wait for you there.
Come to me
and lead thither my children
Sullivan.
Yeah.
And Dawn,
July 21st,
1861 the regiment took part in the first battle of bull run
and as one of the senior officers,
Sullivan went in front on horseback to direct his man and he was hit by a cannon
ball that tore off his right leg and also killed his horse
when he died from his wound a week after the battle,
while the prisoner of the confederate army at age 32
again,
an individual obviously prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice
and we know that the enemy,
yeah,
can be equally prepared to die.
And we saw that clearly from the kamikaze pilots from Japan in World War II.
One of those
young kamikaze pilots
was named Yukio are our rocky
and he was a member of the 72nd Shin Bu Squadron.
And he wrote this letter,
dear father and mother,
I trust you and my brothers are doing well.
Recently.
It has been that I will go
at last to take part in the battle of Okinawa as a member of the special attack
forces.
Yeah,
I am deeply moved.
I only look forward to sinking a ship with a single blow.
Okay.
When I look back,
I apologize for not being devoted to you in any way for some 10 years to this
day
through teaching by various senior officers.
After I entered the army,
I now devote myself to my country as a special attack force member.
Please find pleasure in your desire for my loyalty to the emperor and devotion
to parents.
I have no regrets.
I just go forward on my path.
Okay.
I ask that you teach my three brothers so they can serve our country as noble
airman.
I sincerely hope you take good care of yourselves and make strain years efforts
on the home front.
Please give my regards to all my relatives and to everyone in the neighborhood
association.
Sianora Yukio are rocky,
and he did indeed die at the age of 17 in a suicide tack on American ships near
Okinawa on May 27th,
1945 and the Japanese also imposed their willingness to die
on their people.
And here is a
okay
description of that brutal imposition from American sailors,
from the Journal of an American sailor named James [inaudible],
who served on the USS Montpelier in the Pacific.
And this is what he wrote on November 10th,
1943 this afternoon,
we came across a raft with four live Japs in it.
Yeah.
As the destroyer,
Spence came close to the raft.
The Japs opened up with machine gun at the destroyer.
The jap officer then put the gun in each man's mouth had fired billowing out the
back of each man skull.
Okay.
One of the Japs did not want to die for the emperor and put up a struggle.
The others held him down.
The officer was the last to die.
He also blew his brains out.
The Spence went into investigate all the bodies that disappeared into the water.
There was nothing left but blood at an empty raft.
Yeah.
Swarms of sharks everywhere.
The sharks ate well today
we went to battle stations
and at 10:00 PM we were attacked by enemy planes.
Okay.
Later darkness descended
and the rains came.
Okay.
And just coming off the episode that we did
with Musashi,
who obviously overcame his fear of death.
And I got a book
in the mail from Japan
and the book was called the hundred rules of war.
It's from someone in Japan named Eric Eric Shanahan,
who turned out to be the actual translator of this book.
And he's translated a bunch of other Japanese books on martial arts.
And he asked me if this book,
the hundred rules of war,
if any of the rules inside this book apply to modern warfare.
And I read through the book and I read the book and it came to a very clear
answer that yes,
not only do many of the rules and the book apply to modern warfare,
they also apply to life in general.
Like many of the rules that I talk about
and this book,
the 100 rules of war,
which by the way only has 97 rules in it.
But the book was originally written by Suca Hora [inaudible] who lived from
1,489 to 1571 then that's actually before Musashi's lifetime cause Musashi was
born,
they say in 1584.
So this,
this book predates Musashi and there's,
there's actually multiple revisions on this book.
It's interesting.
People would get it and add something to it.
Over the years there was a foreword written to the book in the mid 16 hundreds
by Tequan Soho.
And then there was an afterword written by one of the grandchildren of Boca den
students.
And there's another section,
the first eight lines in the book that were added and those are attributed to
Shogun Yoshi Moon.
And he's a shogun.
That rule did Japan from 1716 until 45.
So this book is very interesting and um,
since Eric who sent it to me is obviously fluent Japanese.
All apologize,
of course for my bad Japanese pronunciation.
But
we'll go for it.
We're not,
I'll want to take you through some of the sections of this book that again,
I feel not only applied to combat today,
but to
life today.
And interestingly,
here's the,
we'll start off a little bit with the introduction and this is again written by
w written after the original book came out and this guy added this introduction
to it and he's describing how great the book is.
It's a little bit of arrogance in this,
but it's okay cause he's saying he's not saying he wrote it,
he's saying,
look,
this book is important and here we go to the book.
If you change out the people,
if you change out the words,
if you change out the places and if you change out every generation,
it is like the difference between rain do snow and ice,
the reach a formed by the same water.
That's interesting,
right?
Because now we're talking about people that you can be different times,
different places,
different,
different surroundings,
but it's like the difference between rain and doing snow and ice.
It's the same water.
The same people are the same.
Back to the book.
These words should be read by any and everyone who follows the way of the
warrior.
Speak them aloud so that you may hear them in your ears and failed to heed them
at your peril.
They're not simply words to revere and praise.
If you are attempting to equate the teachings within this scroll to any other
work,
no,
that this is knowledge that can be found only after somebody in the tallest peak
of a mountain.
The depth of the wisdom contained down these pages makes the sea seems shallow
by comparison.
If you were to compare a person versed in these ideas to a stone,
you would find the ladder soft by comparison.
Pull a bow string,
launching an era or pulling a bowstring,
launching an Arrow,
raising your whip,
encouraging your steed,
dawn in your armor,
taking up your lance,
gaining fame and honor and becoming one who starts a great house.
Read this book,
listen to it.
Understand the unmistakable truths.
It would be utterly foolish to not lock them in your mind,
in my opinion.
Even if you lived through a hundred generations over a thousand years,
coming across another book like this would be like to a blind turtle who comes
to the surface once every hundred years climbing its way into a hole on a piece
of driftwood.
I liked that.
Now as we jump into this book,
there's one more thing I need to match.
I said that there's these additions Kinda to the book over time.
Well,
one of the additions to the book,
I mean this book was written in the 15 hundreds but one of the additions to the
book,
and this is something that,
that Eric added that he found a translation of the book by a researcher and a
practitioner of the sword arts.
And this guy's name was Horry show.
He and he produced the tax and he put little helpful interpretations,
kind of furthering the idea a little bit.
So I'll read those sometimes because it gives a little bit of clarification as
to what's being talked about.
And these first eight lines are,
actually,
I'll,
I'll give it up for these first eight lines of his book being fairly epic,
fairly epic.
And again,
these were written by Tokugawa Shogun.
You Shoe Mooney,
and again,
he was the shogun ruler of Japan from 1716 to 1745 and here's what he added to
the book.
And I think these are,
well,
here's number one.
You cannot have pleasure without pain and you cannot have pain without pleasure.
Your struggles now will be rewarded in the future.
So you must endure,
right?
Yes.
Kind of speaks for itself.
Does it not?
In fact,
I think we call that discipline equals freedom.
Yup.
Next be reverent towards the law.
Be Afraid of fire.
Be Afraid of thoughtless,
delusional people and never forget to be reverent to those you owe a debt of
gratitude to.
This is one of those things that,
what do we say now?
Never forget where you came from.
Right?
People say,
never will forget where you came from.
Well,
don't forget those people that got you there.
Yeah.
Cause where you came from,
somebody helped you all along the way and so don't forget about that.
Next one.
You should think of greed and lust as the enemy.
Hmm.
Concur.
I think I like this one.
You should neither sleep late nor talk too long.
Now I guess I'm kind of the talk too long.
I may be violating that on a regular basis.
At least once a week on a podcast.
Yes,
me too.
Sometimes.
Actually you might violate that on a regular
hastily,
but here's,
here's a guy,
don't sleep late and you know,
I get this all
the,
every time I,
every time somebody talks to me about sleeping,
someone says why I have the night shift or while I work late and my,
my kids don't go to bed until midnight.
Okay.
I get it.
My saying,
everyone of the world has to wake up at four 30 yeah.
What I'm saying is this,
you shouldn't sleep late.
Right.
And if you work the night shift,
not sleeping late might be waking up at noon.
You didn't oversleep is my point.
The idea,
just like we all want to like stay cozy and our Ben and kind of take our time
getting up and kind of thing.
Yeah,
it's the idea for sure.
That's what I get from it anyway.
It's not the mandatory four 30.
And if you don't wake up at four 30,
you're black or something like someone,
someone,
um,
I would picture my hands on the interweb right.
And uh,
I have a little callous get removed.
Sure.
On the pull up bar and on the pulling,
but someone,
someone,
someone said,
hey,
if,
if someone doesn't have callouses,
they don't work out.
And then someone else said,
well what if you run a marathon?
You still work out.
Exactly.
You know,
it's,
the point is get some right kids.
Can you get some while training for a marathon?
Yes.
Can you get someone to run your marathon?
You can look at Rob Jones.
You know,
he just ran 31 marathons in 31 days.
Yeah.
That's getting,
we're not accusing him of not working his lack of palaces,
although I'm sure he has cows.
Yeah.
All right.
Next.
Take care to organize even trivial things.
Then if something major occurs,
it will not catch you off guard.
So that's the little things that mattered.
Attention.
He's got to go in or not.
And we know military.
When you joined the military,
I joke about it,
they make you fold your underwear in like a four by four inch square and that's
the thing they're trying to teach you attention to detail.
Yeah.
Cause actually I was talking to a marine buddy of mine,
I think it was,
I wanna say it was Morgan.
Yeah.
And they were,
they landed there,
Hilo and the gunner or whoever was in charge of the weapon cracked off a 50 cal
round into the,
well,
so you have a 50 cal mountain in the,
in the helicopter guy cracked off around.
He if,
if a weapon gets hot it can just shoot.
Yeah.
Weapons really hot.
It's called a cook off.
You've got to Brown in the chamber and the weapons hot and it can just make that
round go off from what?
The wet anything.
This weather from hot,
if it's hot while you're shooting it.
Okay.
If it's on your side,
then you add,
you shooted a bonsai and now it gets hot.
There's a hot round sitting in a chamber and a minute goes by or you don't know
him.
You don't know how long it's going to be.
It could be a minute,
could be five minutes of boom,
all of a sudden it just fires and this.
So before in this particular case,
I'm not sure the weapon system,
it was a 50 caliber,
but I'm not sure where they had it mounted.
But anyways,
he should have cleared it before he folded it up into the helicopter and he
didn't do that.
And so he pulled the,
the rounds out.
But there's one round sitting in a chamber and sure enough a cooked off.
So that's the kind of thing where they're trying to get you to pay attention to
the small details,
the trivial things.
Trivial things aren't too trivial.
Yeah.
Did they,
do they explain that to you?
Like when,
when you're folding your underwear,
do they explain okay.
It didn't at all?
They do.
And I've talked about this before on the podcast that my drill instructor in in
officer candidate school at the end of officer candidate school,
he explained why on everything at the end,
at the end,
this to me,
I'll be like,
no.
While you're doing it though,
they'll,
they'll be saying,
how can you,
you can't even fold your underwear.
Not Right.
How can we trust you with a weapon system?
They'll say that kind of thing to you,
but you don't really,
when you're,
well,
when I was going through regular bootcamp where you're just trans,
your,
your mind is being transformed from civilian world to military world.
So you're not,
you don't have good perspective.
You're like weapons system,
man.
I just want to the next meal.
You're not,
you can't see the big picture.
I mean,
I,
I couldn't,
I was too young or too dumb or a little bit of both.
But they do.
They're saying,
hey,
how could you,
how could you go?
Could you trust?
How could you fly an airplane if you can't even fold your underwear?
Right?
Boy,
you're actually thinking,
well damn,
maybe I shouldn't be flying and if it's late I fucking can't pull my underwear.
Right?
But they're trying to teach you attention to detail and it is good and it does
apply to everything.
You know,
it does apply to everything and you do the little things right.
And that way the little things are in order and that means the big things.
Even if they catch a little off guard,
you're at least prepared for him.
Yeah,
yeah.
That,
that whole thing that,
I mean I dig it.
You know how they're talking to you guys like that,
but that whole thing where,
how do you expect to do this when you can't even tie your shoes right or
whatever you know,
like,
or you don't bind to that.
I do actually.
No,
it's good.
You're like,
how are you going to cause a lot of things.
It's like a false little equivalency.
There some,
some things there's telling you to pay attention to a little thing called
attention to detail.
I get that part of it for sure,
but I'm saying like say if they are not explaining why and it could be wrong.
Well they're explaining why,
but they're doing it.
They're not doing it.
They're not breaking it down like a school teacher as well.
This is Echo Charles.
Let me tell you why this.
No,
they're not.
They're not.
They're saying,
hey,
how can we trust you with a rifle if you can't fall joinder where,
right.
Yeah.
Okay.
And,
and,
and I would say this,
maybe I didn't see the big picture,
but I at least saw the little picture.
Well,
yeah,
well that's the thing ultimately like,
um,
you know,
like,
and I mentioned misdemeanor,
like on Cra Credit Kitten,
right?
Where he's like,
wax on,
wax off,
you know,
and he's like,
oh,
this is so dumb.
Then at the end he gets the picture,
you know,
but as he's doing it,
I mean,
he didn't say,
you know,
if you can't send the floor,
how are you going to find it in the tournament?
Nothing like that.
But well,
he was of some kind of technique allegedly.
Right.
That's essentially what they're doing as far as attention to detail there.
Make you do all these little dudes you did too,
that would make you,
there's nothing dino,
Dino.
Sure.
There's some sit there and foot lock pieces of wood.
Yeah.
But that's pretty it.
Like,
that's an obvious translation.
You know,
like I'm put locks,
it's like punching a punching bag.
You know?
Same thing too,
just to check.
All right,
going to the next one.
90% is not enough.
Only 100% we'll keep disaster at bay.
That's good.
Now of course,
many times I'll say,
hey,
80 you got an 80% solution.
Go.
Right?
Yeah.
Cause people will sit around and wait for the private brand good blend now,
which I think that's a little bit different,
but this,
I think if you're talking about effort,
yeah,
right.
The effort has to be 100% yeah.
You're not going to give 100% and it's a settling thing too,
right.
Where do you know people don't like to settle,
you know?
Don't tell for 90% a hundred percent is required.
Exactly.
Yeah.
For it or whatever.
That's what I get from it.
Next.
Having good judgment also means being able to endure,
endure,
take pain,
and it's not just pain.
It's also being able to take
just,
just
like discomfort and like how many people don't want to do a job just because
it's,
it just cause it's grueling and not fun.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah,
right.
Hear me.
A lot of things fall in that category.
Not Right now currently obviously,
but in general,
yeah.
That's my general attitude from for the most part sometimes.
What was the worst most menial job that you really hated?
My worst job that I really hated was being a mover at American.
Whoever's on a wall,
we're going away for the summer,
but then you get a little bit what like like,
Hey man,
I'm going to move this thing really fast.
No,
no,
not at all.
It's like for other people all day,
like,
and it was bad as like 13 hours a day average that we're constrained.
They talk to timeout and I work construction and the first day on the job site,
they,
the guys came into the Wendy's.
I worked at Wendy's.
Sure.
And the guys looked at me and the in this old Italian guy builder,
he looks at me,
he goes,
what are you doing here?
I said,
I'm making rent.
He says,
you want to work here?
I said,
no sir.
He said,
you want to work construction with me?
I said,
yes sir.
He said,
report tomorrow we're over crack.
Because they were building a place right across the street.
Yeah.
I said,
yes sir.
So I showed up there in the morning and there is there a dump truck had come
with a ton of concrete block to that.
We're going to build a little foundation wall and they just dumped it,
you know,
a hundred yards away.
All these concrete blocks.
Yeah.
And he says,
Hey,
your job today is to move these blocks over to get them over here near the
foundation thing.
And he said,
we're going to get some coffee and some donuts,
sir.
Yeah.
Donuts.
So I said,
yes sir.
And he got an a truck with the guys,
right.
And I started moving these blocks I was running.
I was running literally running as fast as I could possibly do it.
And I wasn't even doing that as like a challenge to myself.
I was so happy to not be working at Wendy's that I would have.
I mean,
I just was filled with energy so I can get all these blocks done in the,
another guy was there who didn't go to get coffee and donuts and he kind of gave
me,
hey man,
you need to slow down.
You're going to make everyone look bad.
And I would just say,
Hey,
I'm going pretty slow.
And I said,
I said,
don't worry,
I'll do whatever you,
I'll do your job.
You can sit there.
I don't care.
But what do you do any of that?
You didn't get any,
I mean you didn't propose a little challenges to yourself and your little work
crew.
That's actually how I got by.
It was like,
okay,
let me do this.
Because if there's a way to get by,
you should tell people because some people are stuck in jobs that they don't
like right at this moment in time.
They're listening to podcasts and they're working at Wendy's.
Yeah,
and I worked at Wendy's,
Bro.
They get off on foot locker,
douchy view there.
Worked at foot locker,
but shoes guy in the back,
stock crew shoes and stuff like that.
He was funny,
man on quiet.
Working at footlocker was kind of when you'd lock in and be like,
hey,
and that's kind of cool.
You get to where the ref uniform and all that.
And that's what men,
when we were in high school,
so we started working.
I was like,
this is,
it's tedious.
It's weird how your perspective changes.
I was thinking about that the other day when you're a young team guy and you
get,
like when I got my first apartment I was,
I might as well man doll.
I was the richest guy in the world,
you know?
It was like I was the man.
Yeah.
But then as you,
you know,
you settle into that.
Then you say,
well,
you know what?
I need to be cool to have a little house.
You gotta be be weary of the greed.
That's true.
But that's natural though,
right?
It's like a,
you don't,
when you get used to something,
it becomes the new standard.
You know how that whole thing works.
Right.
Well okay then what's the difference between someone,
cause you and I both know people,
we all know people.
There's people that get to the comfort zone and then they're done.
What's the difference between someone that gets the comfort zone and done and
someone that gets the comfort zone and says all right,
I'm comfortable here but I want more.
I want to do more.
Maybe not want more.
Cause that implies a materialistic point but I just want more.
Huh?
Yeah,
I know.
Huh?
Cause they're both like really like obviously prevalent and like almost
naturally you can get both of those personalities exists.
I'm sure we're all like
board both of that.
I'm sure everybody is both of those things in one way or another.
You know like in Oh yeah.
We're probably both in the comfort zone.
Big Time as far as certain things,
you know,
I don't know why.
You know I can't
because if you think about it,
you see someone that's got 70% body fat.
Yeah.
And you go,
dude,
yeah,
that dude's got 70% body fat that's got like that socks.
Like yeah,
that person should work.
You know,
try and get that,
try and drop that percentage down.
Yeah.
But there's someone that's looking at me,
some guy that's obsessed with being lean as hell.
He's looking at me like,
God,
I can't believe Jockos got whatever.
Yeah,
20% or 18 whenever my percent body fat is.
he's looking at me going,
dude.
Well you know what I mean?
So my,
my comfort zone.
No,
no,
no.
Because it's not like you were getting after looking after your body percent
levels and then you hit a certain number and then you were like,
Eh,
who cares kind of thing.
I don't think that that's the way it went.
Here's what happened.
Not with you.
Obviously I can't speak,
you know,
as far as your comfort zones go.
But a typical one will say is that,
you know,
guys will be working out and like getting their fresh hair cut or whatever and
then they'll get married and then they won't work out as much.
Being guys,
girls,
whatever,
um,
you know,
and do that.
They quote unquote let themselves go after they get married like Deca and stuff.
But they might focus a lot more on their career and then they might want more of
that.
But then the,
you know,
it's like that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
I the year watch out for the comfort zone.
All right.
Yeah,
next.
Oh,
now we've moved beyond those opening lines and now we get into the bulk of the
book book,
which again,
which is written by this book,
Den Guy.
And here we go.
It does not matter whether you are filing,
firing at an enemy near you or an opponent,
some distance away,
you should be adept at selecting the best arrowhead.
And then the,
the amplification on that says,
the lesson here is that you need a strong Arrow for an adversary at close range,
but a lighter one for hating an opponent far away.
And I guess when I read this,
the point that I got out of it was you,
you need to be able to select your tools properly,
right?
And,
and as a leader,
you need to be able to select.
Think of all the tools we've talked about on this podcast that you need to use
as a leader.
Some guy just got gotta be a little bit harsher with a guy.
Sometimes you get a big,
you get a flanker guy.
Sometimes you gotta be directors.
All these different tools that you need to use as a leader.
You ganna be adept at selecting the right tools.
And I gave a metaphor on here one time about,
about how,
uh,
you like a woodworker,
right?
This is actually what's interesting about the word metaphor
is as a leader,
you have to be like a woodworker,
which means you need to learn all these different types of tools,
but you need to learn how to use these different tools on different types of
wood.
And each one of these types of wood,
each one of these individual pieces of wood is a little bit different.
They got a little not,
they get a grain,
they get things.
So you,
you can't just learn the mechanical skill.
You have to learn to be a true craftsman with the tools and then you have to
learn about what the different types of people they are and then you have to see
that each,
even a different type.
Like this person might have a big ego,
but they got this other thing and you will not,
they get a little different grain
like a barber,
you know,
of our concerns versus using the clippers slow yet and he busts out the thing
and it depends,
you know?
That's true.
Like a barber or I guess we could say any type of craftsmen that's to work with
varying medium.
Sure.
Yeah.
Pretty much anybody really.
Everybody you watched the social network brought,
watch that show.
It sounds weird.
It's like when you first hear the ideas about Facebook,
you will have of off Facebook and Zuckerberg.
The first,
when you hear about that,
you're like,
Oh,
who cares?
But Bro,
that's a good movie.
Really good movie.
Anyway,
it's a movie.
I thought it was a,
is it a show or a movie?
A movie.
The social network.
Is he awkward?
Yeah.
Yeah,
it she'll,
it's really,
they overdo his awkwardness.
You think?
Maybe?
Maybe.
Yeah,
maybe.
I Dunno.
I don't really follow soccer Berg to know his awkwardness or whatever.
But you ever heard people call them Zucks?
Yeah,
it's up.
Cause I like wearing tight.
We're tight.
CSEC sucks.
But he,
he's,
he's doing something.
He's,
he's breaking into the college computer or main frame,
whatever he's breaking into and he's kind of narrating what he's doing.
He's like,
I had to do this so I had to break out this,
this,
you know,
and he's,
he's doing the same thing.
That was a really revealing part in regards,
Oh he's got a mic.
So he's trying to solve these freight.
It's all code and you know,
so he's trying to solve this problem,
but then this problem comes up and then this one has these specific problems.
So he has to solve them,
but he can't just do it with the current tools he has to bus out to the tuition.
When he was creating it of,
of what it was going to be.
Well did he feel that confident about it?
Does he see?
Did he see the whole vision or did he like wake up one day and say,
Dang,
this thing isn't going to be really,
it was like,
it was a slow evolution into it because at first it was like he started with
this thing called face smash,
which was basically just comparing the girls on campus,
like who's hotter?
Hmm.
And then you click okay,
she thought it and then you go to the next one.
She thought her anything,
you know,
and that's cold blooded sex and that was a big part of it.
It was like that's what people would hate him and stuff like that.
And then it just slowly,
um,
no,
I was a social network.
These guys like,
isn't that what a teenager would do?
Right.
Oh yeah.
Big Time.
And that's what they were trying to emphasize to more like he just wanted it to
be liked by people or he made that,
I thought that was going to help them be liked.
I don't know.
This is just what the moves are.
I Dunno.
You know,
I'm sure there's some inconsistencies with it,
but where does,
it would be weird to meet him.
Well,
not just to meet him like,
Hey,
nice to meet you,
but to actually know him,
I guess.
Because then you see what someone's,
there's been,
there's been people that I've kind of known that were,
uh,
whatever soda,
semi famous or,
or whatever the word is.
Sure.
And,
and in Riyadh,
like on TV,
they seem like they're not cool people,
but in regular life they're really cool.
And then the opposite.
I've also seen where someone is seems super cool when you see their persona and
then real life,
they're not cool.
Yeah.
I guess that'd be pretty common to kind of be inconsistent in that way or have
it be inconsistent as far as your experience with that person,
it seems like it'd be kind of comment,
right?
Because a lot of people,
if they're famous or if they're,
you know,
famous,
popular,
whatever you,
a lot of times you kinda got to turn it on for the camera.
Right.
Especially because you're essentially a performer in one way or another,
whether it be actor or whoever,
you know,
even like businessmen,
like it's weird and it's not even necessarily a bad thing.
It's more like for lack of better term,
a required thing,
you know?
So like my brother for example,
like if I know him,
but then when I hear him talking to like,
like I dunno executives or something or like,
um,
every once in a while he'll,
I'll see you on an like an interview or something and I'm like,
like he only,
cause I know,
I know.
So good.
I just thought of Joe Rogan.
Yeah.
So I actually met Joe Rogan a long time ago when I was just dean want a dean's
cornerman right.
You know,
you know how Joe Rogan treated me back then?
Huh.
Super Cool.
Like,
like this school,
just the same.
I then when I was up on his podcast,
the same dude that,
that's a good dude right there.
You know what I mean?
To agree.
And strangely enough,
I had the exact same experience and this,
and this will,
this will kind of demonstrate how legitimate it is.
Right?
So same exact story.
I met Joe Rogan for the first time with Dean and my wife.
We went to,
we kind of knew red band through,
it's a long story.
So we went to one of his shows,
we got to go to one of his shows and go talk to them afterwards.
Right.
So that's the first day I met him.
Same thing.
Super Nice.
Gave me his email.
I'm like,
right,
I'm just some dude.
Oh Charles.
He was like,
hey,
yeah,
email.
Yeah.
And then so the next time I see him was when I went to legends to train when I
was going to La for fulfill me and until I train it legends.
And so I go there and um,
he's there,
he's rolling with everyone and you know,
it's like he's known there or whatever,
you know,
like a calm,
just another person there as far as training goes.
And then,
um,
so he's kind of cruising down the side.
So it's like,
oh,
I'm going to go ask them to roll.
So I was like,
Hey,
what's up?
Yeah,
I met you with Dean long time ago,
you know,
a few years ago,
whatever it was like,
he was like,
yeah,
that must've been a lot.
Like he totally did it.
Remember me,
you know,
it's not like,
oh,
I remember you so now I'm going to be cool to you.
It was like he did totally did it.
Remember me and I was probably one of many people and he was still just cool.
So he starts talking about UFC,
you know,
how like you did your hey small talk before you guys were home and then,
um,
so it's small talking starts talking about current UFC stuff.
We didn't even enroll who,
I just want to listen to him talk about USC.
And so he didn't roll,
but same thing,
same exact thing.
And then,
and even when I went up to film with him for the metamorph stuff ready,
but all this stuff,
same thing he liked,
forgot about me again.
That was like years ago and he was like,
Oh yeah,
that must've been a long time ago.
Same exact thing.
I was like,
yeah,
I actually respect the fact that,
does it go?
Oh yeah,
yeah,
I remember.
Yeah,
yeah,
fully.
Yeah.
He's,
he's doesn't play that game.
No.
I actually met 80 million people last year and I don't really remember you,
but it's good to hang out with you right now again.
Yeah,
exactly.
Exactly.
And this,
I mean,
of course,
yeah,
Joe Rogan is like this and if people are like this in general,
that is just,
like I said,
that's kind of like a,
not a litmus test,
but kind of like this,
this indicator,
you know,
he didn't remember me so really since he didn't remember me for all intensive
purposes,
I was just another person
and same exact treatment,
just cool.
Just normal.
It wasn't like,
I mean,
you're you and there's this separation kind of thing.
It would,
none of that.
No good way to be.
I don't even know how we ended up talking about that one.
You dropped Joe Rogan's the name and we started talking about it.
So,
you know,
good point named job,
Dave tropper.
All right,
next you're mount should be of normal strength and spirit.
Horses with a strong urge to win or fearful and skittish should be rejected out
of hand.
So I thought this was interesting because we're talking about finding someone
that's balanced right.
Dot.
Not someone that's,
he's a normal,
normal strength and spirit.
Don't want someone at Spragg row,
but you don't want someone that's weak.
You want someone that's in the middle.
And,
uh,
the amplification on it says courses without nerve or weak,
while a horse with a lot of spirit cannot be written by normal people.
In other words,
a slightly strong,
somewhat plucky horse is best.
Plucky by the way,
second time we've heard that word today,
this is a sign to learn the word.
Do you know what it means?
I didn't know him.
No,
no,
he's brave.
Plucky mean means brave.
Okay.
Does indeed had to look that one up?
Similar here.
As long as the horse is strong,
is it acceptable?
It is acceptable for it to have a certain inclination.
However,
never ride a horse with a tendency to retreat.
So if you've got a strong horse,
it's basically,
to me,
this is as long as the thing is not going to turn tail,
if it's a little bit feisty,
if it's a little bit of this,
a little bit of that,
you can have a little bit different personnel.
And what I,
what I took away from this is as a leader,
once again,
you're going to get people with some things going on.
It's a little personality traits.
Some little,
like when you're putting together a seal platoon,
you're gonna have some guys that are got some idiosyncrasies,
right?
Yeah.
You got 16 guys and a seal platoon.
You got 36 guys in a task unit.
They're not all the same by any stretch.
And some of them are going to be even further outside the box of,
you know,
they're gonna have,
they're going to have some kind of idiosyncrasy,
we might even call it an issue for me,
like that's kind of an overused word,
but I mean if they're going to issue,
right?
Sure.
Okay.
What this is saying is,
as long as they're not going to retreat and run where,
all right.
But if they're going to retreat and run,
if that's their idiosyncrasy Ghana,
yeah,
get rid of him.
What do you call it?
A deal breaker.
It's a deal breaker.
Deal breaker.
Big Time.
All right.
The next,
while small horses may be easier to handle as well as dismount from those who
prefer such animals are,
are a bit dim.
Witted so what I like about this is if you're in a leadership position,
you might want our surround yourself with people that are just that.
They'll just do what you say in there.
You see what I'm saying?
I want my horses all just to fall in line and they're easy to get on and off.
And if I yell at them,
they don't vet.
Don't bark back.
You don't want those people.
You want people that are a little bit harder to handle,
just a little bit harder to handle.
Maybe they're gonna stand up to you.
Like I always say,
you don't wanna be surrounded by yes men.
You want to be surrounded by people that will question you and say,
I don't like this plan.
So that's the kind of horses you want,
not not little tiny weak horses.
Next,
you should know that a person wearing a newly forged sword will invariably
blunder even if that sword cuts well.
So basically this is like,
you got to watch a new guys a little bit.
Wait,
wait,
say that again.
It's,
it's,
you should know that a person wearing a newly forged sword will invariably
blunder even if that sword cuts well.
Okay,
Gotcha.
So you got to watch your new guys.
And here's the amplification on this one.
A sword that is not at least a hundred years old is one that you cannot rely on
gut to.
Okay.
Yeah.
It makes sense.
Like young people full of vigor and energy.
The vitality of a young sword is not entirely stable.
You cannot rely on it.
Hey,
you got to watch,
you gotta watch unproven,
unproven,
got to watch him.
That makes sense to me.
And I'm not saying they won't be bad.
Asses might be right.
They might be.
I had new guys that were big,
complete bad asses.
But you don't know that outside of new guys where you'd think they're going to
be good.
It's weird man.
I've been talking about bugs a little bit lately.
Sure.
Some of my friends you,
you have no idea who's going to make it through.
You don't know cause it's mental,
right?
You're a mental,
mental,
physical.
It's mental and physical.
Hey can you get cut from bugs just cause you're not like,
let's see,
is there like I don't,
I don't know.
But you know like let's say there's a run and you got gotta you know,
do,
do they or is there any circumstances that are this or similar to this where
you're going to make this run in,
you know,
10 minutes,
whatever.
And if you don't make the 10 minutes you're out there.
Stuff like for sure.
Absolutely.
There's a,
there's actually the standard time.
So Ron's had been in place since I went through and they're the same for the,
for what they call a four mile time run the four mile time drawn in first phase.
The time.
Maximum time you can take is 32 minutes.
32 minutes.
What do you run in?
That's your your surprise.
Cause that's slow.
Right?
Four mile.
That's a time run.
That's an eight minute mile.
That's pretty fast.
What?
It's pretty no,
it's pretty fast.
They didn't second phase it goes down to 30 minutes bro.
You used to run a what to do it but it's not like the team.
Let me tell you,
that is not fast.
That is not fast.
In second phase it goes to 30 minutes.
In fourth phase it goes to 28 minutes.
That's a seven minute mile.
That is not fast.
Yeah.
I thought you're going to say like 10 minute mile.
This is what this is what trips people up or jams people up as you like to say.
What jams people up is when you do the run you're not fresh.
That's the thing.
You're not fresh.
You're wearing boots,
boots,
you're wearing pants.
You're all in the soft sand on the sand and the sand like part of it will be
hard pack.
Yeah.
But then like part of it's going to be soft and,
and this has changed a little bit from what I've been told when I went through
the instructors,
maybe that run was 4.2 miles is 4.5 miles.
Maybe it was maybe was 3.8 miles.
They'd kind of estimated so if you didn't make it the time,
so we're not,
when I went through,
if you didn't make the time for that for run,
they had your name.
If you failed again,
you were done.
Okay,
so it's like one strike.
Yes.
Okay,
got you.
Now the interesting thing is if you failed a run and then you failed to swim,
do you could still,
we would still be there,
but if you failed a runner,
so I can you again,
if you failed a run and a swim and you failed an obstacle course,
you'd still be there.
Tell one more time.
They call it being on the bubble.
Actually,
I think,
no,
that actually came from officer candidate school.
I don't think we said the bubble.
There's new things that,
that,
that develop in buds that come.
Yeah,
I've heard on the bubble planning times you're on the bubble like they should
have or that just means in general
you need to cut
so tanked.
Okay,
so that that's what you mean by its physical cause like yeah,
it's physical.
Like if you don't,
yeah,
you can fail physical.
I've been telling people this lately,
I had to run as fast as I could possibly run the past the runs for,
for my,
I would,
that would be me too.
And the one time,
one time I paced myself,
it was like,
you know what,
I'm just going to pace myself.
Sure,
I'll be fine.
I based myself.
Yeah.
I felt like this puzzle.
Then from then on,
and I had a buddy that was a cross country runner in high school or college or
something and he's like,
hey,
run with me.
And I'm like,
yeah,
I've got,
and I didn't like I had brand is hard as it and that's how I had to run every
run.
I had to run as hard as I could.
And there's guys that ran cross country.
Those drones are a joke for those guys.
I mean Echo,
it's no big deal for,
I mean there's a lot of people that can run five minute miles that are doing
those runs and you know,
a four mile run and like 20 to 22 minutes and that's not true.
I'm surprised that you thought that was fast.
I think I just caught you off guard.
It's slow dude.
It might be slow depending the way me and my fast and depends on when you meet
my slow,
when I used to like run,
I would run on the treadmill and I would run a seven minute talk to me about the
treadmill Trimble's or no,
that's part of my point.
You run on the treadmill.
I'd run like a seven minute mile pace and I'd be like Dang.
And but I'd only do like one mile and it'd be like good.
That's I,
I've,
I've only run on a treadmill like three times easier.
It's either you're like if I was on board ships I would run around the flight
deck.
So that's what I mean like talking about it,
these guys running seven,
eight minute mile.
Usually when I'd run like four miles or five miles on the treadmill,
it'd be like 10 like just under nine minutes,
something.
I don't even know how to translate to treadmill.
I honestly don't.
I don't know how that translates.
Yeah,
so I would say it's like,
but a nine minute mile is pathetic.
Right?
That's,
and that's the pace.
I would run my four miles and it wouldn't be dead,
but I'd be,
that'd be if I'm,
if I,
if you want me to run an eight minute,
seven minute,
eight minute mile with boots in San,
even some of the time you're crazy or you're so distance runners what I'm
hearing apparently.
Yeah.
I'll be going like you as fast as I possibly can to make it
check
back to the book.
While you should select a sword with a handle that as long and thin you should
reject any sword with one that is excessively long.
I like that.
A lot of these rules are balanced there about balance.
That's what they're about.
Hey,
you want it long and thin but don't.
Not too long.
Yeah,
you want a horse that's strong but not overly strong.
This is a lot about balance and here's the amplification.
You are less likely to drop a sword with a thin handle.
However,
in cold weather you are liable to drop a sword with a thick handle.
For the most part went on horseback.
You should pass a string through the hand guard of your sword and tie it to your
arm.
Once you drop it,
you'll be able to pick it up again.
Have lanyard.
Hm?
Have a lanyard on your weapon of a leash.
Haven't board.
No,
that's different.
No
leashes are for dogs.
Uh,
I,
I had my whole career cattle landed on my pistol.
Hmm.
Only needed at one time.
Dang.
I don't think I've even heard of eating meat.
I only dropped my pistol one time,
Huh?
Yeah.
Next.
Again,
balanced.
It is good for the tip of your spear to be long.
However,
if it is too long,
you may find yourself in trouble.
Yeah.
Amplification.
The blade on the end of your spirit should be long,
but not excessively.
So if it is too heavy then you'll lose it.
Balance.
Got to keep things balanced
next.
Even if you are able to fly up into the sky without feathers,
you have no chance of victory with a spear.
You cannot wield with your own day with two hands.
I liked that one
is that kinda like girls over packing for a trip and making you carry their
stuff.
I don't think it has anything to do with that.
When you really think about it,
think about it.
Oh cause she can't carry her own stuff.
All her stuff that she needs and she's going to do well on the vacation as far
as comfort goes,
whatever.
But she can't even carry it.
If you would have made it not about vacation but about patrolling through the
woods.
Right.
Like it's great that you brought a whisper light and extra food and all this
other stuff,
but you can't carry it.
Yeah.
Remember Leif was talking about that?
The first first patrol,
our body,
he had 27 and [inaudible].
He was ready for world war three though.
All right.
Yeah,
cause it,
what was the double doozy was getting acclimated to being in the hundred and 20
degree heat and getting acclimated to running around.
The Marine Corps is out.
They've been out there for months,
sprinting from corner to corner cover to cover and they've already mid minimize
their gears somewhat and Lafe shows up.
He,
he's not only easy,
a little heavy or maybe even a lot heavy,
but also he's getting acclimated.
So it's a double,
it's a,
it's a one two punch.
All right.
This is a good one.
Okay.
While the shaft of your spear.
Yeah.
It should be long.
Ignore the ground at your peril.
When I first read that,
I was thinking to myself,
okay,
well what does that mean?
Does that mean ignore the ground?
Here's the amplification.
The length of store to your sphere as well as a weight lighter,
heavier should differ based on three factors.
You,
your enemy and the battleground.
So even if your spirit sufficient,
not having an understanding of the terrain will def will result in defeat
terrain.
That's what these,
that's what he means by ground.
Yeah.
Ignore the ground at your peril.
And
this is something that's very difficult or it's,
it's something that we don't talk about even even though I've talked about it
before,
this podcast for sure.
Knowing terrain,
that's what,
that's what combat is.
Combat is knowing and understanding the terrain.
It's knowing and understanding the ground.
It's an understanding land features and buildings and what angles.
Yeah.
Producing and where you patrol should go and where a good ambush site would be.
That is all based on knowing the ground.
The terrain is what we call,
we don't call it the ground.
We call it the terrain.
Yeah.
Knowing terrain features,
micro features,
micro terrain.
What's this little drawing?
Dead Space.
All these little things are so important,
so that rule absolutely applies to
this day.
Next Samurai
do not gorge themselves at banquets.
Eating twice a day is more than enough.
Yeah.
April vacation.
Samurai must train themselves to be able to withstand hunger and to always be on
their guard from days past.
It was said that two meals a day is plenty.
Yeah.
It appears there were some people eating three times a day in this era.
Dropping the hammer.
Yup.
Do you eat three meals a day?
Three.
Yeah.
Dot.
So
sometimes too,
when I'm feeling,
you know where your spirit,
yeah,
I've actually heard that.
I think heuler was the one who told me that the three meals a day,
no,
it wasn't as much as it was the amount of meals that day.
It was like the type of meals,
you know,
they do this heavy meals.
Oh yeah.
They'd have a certain mix,
like kind of formula,
but Gracie Diet.
Yeah.
And if you notice it,
it's really light bananas and cucumbers and like,
yeah,
it's really weird stuff that he made the smoothie from at one time it was like,
there was like,
I want to say a cream cheese in there with watermelon and,
but that,
it was like interesting little mix.
But it was good though.
But it was like,
like a lot of the stuff is late because um,
you know,
when you get a lot of people coming in and trying to challenge you at the
academy,
it's like old school,
you know,
when people,
you always gotta be ready gotta be.
Yeah.
So you can't be like,
oh,
I just ate up,
you know?
I Dunno.
I don't like people ask me that all the time.
Do you do,
what do you eat in the morning before you work out?
I don't think anything.
Nothing.
Yes.
I don't like to eat before I drank.
I agree.
And some people say,
oh,
it's an hour and a half.
If I don't eat an hour and a half before I trained,
I don't even like to eat.
Yeah,
three hours.
I think there might be psychological,
I mean,
hey look,
everyone's different way.
It's about chicken today.
We got delayed and I was like,
Hey,
if I don't eat now,
you might get hangry.
No.
Then by the time we're training tonight,
oh yeah,
Dang.
Then I would have to eat when we done and then all of a sudden it's 45 minutes
to an hour and I'm on the mat and I don't like that feeling.
I won't start any.
My Gut.
Yeah,
I'd rather not eat.
We'll consider this were in a real general way of explaining it.
If you,
you know,
when you eat something,
your stomach that'll work.
Just something.
The muscles,
smooth muscles as
opposed to skeletal muscles.
By the way,
smooth muscles,
they gotta get to work.
Anything,
you know,
enzymes go in there,
all this stuff.
So when you taking away from your,
let's call it,
yeah,
the blood flow,
like all of a sudden basically the resources of your buddy started going to your
stomach now and now you want to demand some resources for the rest of your body.
When you go to train,
the stomach's like,
Hey,
what about us?
Resources bail from the stomach.
Little bits don't feels upset.
You might throw up or feel like it.
Andy almost puke the other day.
Yeah,
that's bad.
All right,
same subject.
That's why I'm going to go right to it.
If a Samurai is preparing to step onto the field of battle,
does wide to avoid is wise to avoid eating anything other than hot water poured
over rice.
So that's one way to do it.
Keep amplification.
If you eat a lot at a banquet before a great battle,
the food will not have settled.
By the time the fighting starts.
Echo Charles called it.
If you then were to have your head chopped off,
all that food would come out and it would make a great big mess.
Food will not pass down the throat of a coward.
It appears t was not common.
Okay.
Interesting.
Next one.
Something a Samurai should never be without is the thing you use to sharpen your
blade.
A wet stone makes sense,
right?
That's the way you bring your rings when you go on drugs.
If I go for multiple days,
if I go,
if I'm only going to be gone for like two or three days,
I will just use whatever random pull up bar I can find her maker.
Yeah.
But if I'm going for five days,
six days,
bring the rings.
It rings make a big difference if you have rings.
So many workouts you can do with just rings.
Yeah.
When you think about it,
and I know this from experience or it's,
it's in my experience,
it's harder to find something to do pull ups on then what you'd expect you'd
think,
Oh yeah,
I can just do it like right here or wherever.
It can be harder.
Yeah you can't.
You can do pushups anywhere.
You can do pushups,
you
incline pushup and you can do all kinds of crazy squats and squats,
pistols and jump squats and burpees.
Pullups that's why rings are key and once you have rings then you can also do
ring dips.
You can do ring pushups,
you can do like assisted squats if you need them.
I don't really do that.
But you don't need help.
Well he's a man bro.
I'm not over here bragging about being able to do empty bodyweight squats.
But,
but you can do everything once you have pair rigs and you can usually find a
place new pullups somewhere.
Parking garage.
They have little overhanging ledges.
They have eye beams you can hang on to have,
I hate to say it cause I know someone's going to rip it and break it and spray
water everywhere.
But they have sprinkler systems in there and that's actually the Columbia system
actually the cast iron where they,
where the sewage goes out of a building.
It's usually a big
pipe and it's hard to do popups,
but it's good.
Yeah,
I don't think that that's good.
I think that's a risk right there.
It's probably against some sort of a brutal at the hotel.
Whatever you're talking about here.
Don't tell him I told you.
Yeah.
Blame me.
Taking ownership,
taking ownership of you,
your faults.
Next,
it is unseemly for a Samurai to be enamored with the flavor of food that has sat
down before them is best that your meal be a soup made of boiled water poured
over rice.
That's how they roll,
man.
They're just like,
you know what,
I'm gonna eat Brice with hot water poured over it.
Otherwise you could distractions.
Do you think that that
that sort of asceticism keeps,
keeps you tougher
kind of.
Yeah.
Right away.
It,
it provides less distraction from your goal cause like in,
in fitness and you know,
like working out bodybuilding a lot of time,
like that's a factor big time because you got to eat a certain amount to
maintain or gain weight and all this stuff and you know,
maintain certain backroads,
you know,
fat levels,
all this stuff.
So you can't just be going to KFC or wherever you think is super delicious and
just eating it and be like,
hey,
you got to have like certain models like lean stuff and you can't add a bunch of
sauces because there's extra calories in there and all this stuff.
So yeah,
if you,
if you can endure that kind,
that kind of food that doesn't necessarily taste that good.
Yeah.
You can get to your goal way better.
What about Charlie plumb eaten two balls of rice a day for six years.
Yeah.
I'm sure that,
you know,
that kind of helped him help delayed or what
it's like accepting of conditions?
Well that,
yeah,
it's like if you're,
if you're used to sleeping on the floor with no ac and the heat or whatever.
Yeah.
You know,
you can go sleep on someone's couch,
you can go get rest pretty much anywhere and that's a good luxury.
Especially when you compare it to a situation where you don't,
you,
you don't have that kind of tolerance,
you know,
you're the kind of were like,
you need a certain like softness and temperature and noise level to sleep to
fall asleep.
Yeah.
And then some people will,
they'll just fall right asleep while you're talking to them if they want to kind
of,
I can sleep.
I can sleep real easy on airplanes.
Yeah,
me too.
I get a little crunched up in a little ball and just go sleep.
You know what?
Here's what the,
here's what he actually said.
Here's the amplifying information.
The profession of the Samurai involves being in an extreme environment,
therefore gourmet food of is of no benefit to them.
There you go.
Do you think that people that just eat really,
really high end food all the time when they go back to eating normal food?
Is it,
is it like,
are they suffering?
Yeah,
probably a little bit,
yeah.
In one way.
It depends how they regard it.
You cause he knows.
But you know what's funny?
When I was a kid we'd like,
I eat a lot of stake now.
Sure.
When I was a kid we didn't even eat steak.
Steak costs a lot of money.
It does.
And,
and when I was a kid,
we hamburgers.
Sure.
A lot of hamburgers.
Yeah.
Not as much.
I didn't even like steak when I got in the navy.
I didn't like steak.
Huh?
Didn't like it.
I had to.
I didn't,
I just wasn't used to it.
Yeah.
It took me a couple of years before I started liking steak.
Usually you hit that one steak that's like prepared perfectly.
And then in your mind you're like,
Dang,
I love steak now.
And then even if you get it other stake that wasn't prepared that perfectly
[inaudible] over.
I don't presume it happened to me.
Yeah.
Don't,
maybe it's just like,
uh,
I remember eating burgers at Wendy's though.
Check.
All right.
Next.
When entering a Confrontation Samurai should neither look back on the path
traveled nor what is off to left or right.
So to me that says,
I will prioritize and execute,
right and don't be looking around you.
You see what you see,
what you got to,
you see what you got to do.
You've got a confrontation in front of you.
Here's the implication from the onset,
you should place yourself,
place your full concentration on the battle and not allow your focus to lapse
during the course of the battle.
The most important aspects of the battle,
the most important aspects of battle or the use of people and the use of natural
geography,
right?
You're a leader.
You got to use your people correctly.
And as I just talked about terrain using the natural geography,
those are the two most important things.
Now,
can you get target fixation?
Yes,
you can.
So you can get so focused that you don't,
if you don't pay attention to what's going on left and right,
you might get flagged.
Yeah,
so you've got to watch out for that one next.
Samurais should mind neither of the heat of summer nor the cold of winter as
they raced through fields and over mountains,
exhausting their bodies.
Boom.
You got to train it and heat and cold.
Yeah.
That's welcome to the military.
You freeze and you sweat.
That's the way it works.
Yeah.
It's funny Tony,
Freddy and you kind of turned me on to just mentally,
it's more like putting your mind at a certain,
in a certain way where sure it'll be cold,
but it's not about how cold or not cold it is.
Sure.
It'll be hot.
It's not about how hot or not hot it is and you can't complain about that stuff.
And if you complain that's like that's the part that's going to jam.
Yeah.
Just how you regarded.
You cannot complain in the teams.
Here's what's funny.
Here's what's funny and I just,
you can experience this really easily.
Let's say you,
you and me are out
at the beach and it's warm,
but out here in California wants a song goes down.
Cool off.
Really?
You don't have a sweatshirt weather you need to do y.
Yeah,
you've got a sweatshirt in your bag.
Maybe I have one too.
Cause actually this is a contradiction because if I don't bring one that means
I'm not well prepared.
So I got one in my bag to put it off.
Take it out.
You put it around your waist.
No,
I'm not gonna do that.
I'm not going to do that.
It's going to leave it.
You would not want it.
You just want to BTF.
As long as you can just suck it up.
I don't want,
I don't want you to see me putting on a sweatshirt indicating to you that I was
called a uncomfortable.
Now I'm going to succumb to pamper myself.
Not Happening.
What if I wasn't there?
Probably have.
I'll put the sweatshirt on all their like,
yeah,
this is just straight up.
No,
there's,
there's no denying that.
That's so funny because before I thought like that I would have thought that's
so dumb.
Like put on your suit,
you're ruining your experience or whatever.
You're at the beach with your whatever friends.
If this actually happened yesterday
at a surf contest and the clouds came in and it got cool and my buddy,
he goes off,
it's like having to go put a sweatshirt on and I was like,
Oh really?
Then we both went and got her sweatshirts.
But you let him do it.
He wasn't in the teams too.
Yeah.
So it wasn't just trying to,
because there's always that little thing going on in the teams,
but I kind of feel like,
and it goes on in general to just just,
you know,
fully like you get a rock in your shoe,
just don't,
just don't get it out and leave it in there.
Before that episode with Tony,
like I would be the guy,
it'd be like,
no,
I'm cold.
I can't relate.
But after that,
for some reason I think it just morphed in my mind to like just got a PTF and
you kind of take pride in it,
you know?
Yeah,
yeah.
Next
as Samurai,
you should take it upon yourself to spend time playing in water.
Not doing so could well result in disaster.
That's part one,
obviously.
I agree with that one.
You gotta be in the water part two Samurai should,
as a matter of course,
engage in contests of strength.
If you do not,
then your muscles will become slack.
Obviously I support that one.
I don't know if this guy were just wanting me to read this book because he knew
that I was going to be,
I mean,
how could you not?
How does that not relate to everything that I talk about all the time?
Yeah.
Be in the water workout.
Here's what's funny about this one.
He says that the peasants strength in themselves with their day to day labor and
they also test themselves by lifting and carrying large stones in front of the
local shrines and did pushups in order to build their muscles and thereby
increase their overall strength.
However,
beginning in the Migi era,
such feats of strength became began to be ridiculed
and the use of rocks dwindled.
Thus it is hardly a surprise that the youth of today are weak.
Yeah,
it could.
And also it's kind of like that.
Now we're like,
you know,
let's say grip,
let's say quote unquote grown adults.
Right?
Let's see who can lift that rock.
That's cool though.
Right?
Why do you say that?
Weird voice?
No.
Because I would say generally speaking,
that's kind of like,
oh,
you taught children,
you know,
like what are you guys doing?
Oh,
people make fun of that.
Yeah.
If [inaudible] are having little feats of strength competitions,
what do you think of her?
The crossfit games are though.
Yeah,
but do you think this world's strongest man is?
What do you think the UFC is totally agree.
But I think if it's not like organized and then like presented,
you know,
kind of thing.
Like if me and you were just cruising at the beach and then I'm like,
oh,
that's funny.
We did me and mean Halleck went to Australia.
Right.
And we're like,
oh,
cruise in some downtime.
We're filming this,
this,
um,
you know,
this video.
And Brad just turned into that bowl 100%.
It was just me and him.
So it w we went from pushups.
He was like,
hey.
He's like,
Hey,
what about the challenge you did?
The challenge you did in,
in Maine?
Yay.
Example bag.
Yes.
Missed it.
Got a shoulder,
the bag of gravel.
Yeah.
By the way.
So it's not like a 200 pound barbell gravel thing.
Yeah.
See,
and that's a perfect example,
but that makes you strong.
I think so too.
Yeah,
I agree with,
I agree with it.
I'm just,
I'm just saying like if,
let's say we were all at a barbecue with just a vast variety and be like,
that's totally acceptable.
You know,
the 200 pound bag challenge,
it's all just guys like you know,
but if we were at a barbecue,
you know,
let's say my daughter was a birthday party or something and your kettle bells
out,
right?
Yeah.
If I challenge you today to a kettle bell,
like let's see who can do the night,
whatever the the 90 pound one or something at my daughter's birthday party.
I think aside from me,
you and maybe a handful of other guys that are our direct peers site from them,
I think people would be like,
you guys are dumb.
That's what I think they might be right there.
All right.
Next.
If you allow Your Samurai spirit to wither clearly,
your body will then follow suit.
Your skin will begin to stretch as you gain weight.
Part one.
I think we all just agree with that point.
Yes,
outright.
Do you think that,
this goes back to the comfort question?
Let's take Jujitsu at a certain point where you say,
I don't really care if I get caught by this guy or you know what I'm that guy's
training for and hey,
if
he catches me,
you know what I mean?
Yeah,
yeah.
I see what you're asking to.
So,
so,
so my point is,
at a certain point you,
you,
you accept,
you accept it.
Yeah.
Huh?
Do you think that's okay?
I do think it's okay.
I don't,
I know you don't.
And it's not an absolute yes.
Not so the door when the door is,
you know,
hey,
it's okay.
I'm,
I'm all the excuses,
right?
Yeah.
Hey,
you know,
these guys are young and they're training for the th th th this competition or
that competition,
you know,
got to get in there with them.
When I hear that knock and I slammed the door,
red flag violation,
actually I opened the door and I choke that it out.
Bring it.
Yeah.
I dig it and then I'm not,
you can see what I see.
I think that when you accept that,
I feel,
yeah.
When you accept it.
Yeah.
And the other thing that happens is your ego gets in the way,
right?
Because,
because what happens is you don't want to,
you don't want to get tapped out.
Yeah.
That's bad.
So you don't want to get tapped out so you're not going to try it.
Yeah.
And it,
that happens.
Yeah.
Fully in all the different things that all kind of enter into the equation.
So again,
it comes back to like,
why are you,
why are you training?
Like why are you there introduced through or whatever.
Like why are you there?
So yeah,
if this thing,
what he's talking about where it's like,
okay,
if you're like letting yourself go,
if you're kind of giving up and then justifying it with,
in this case,
oh,
I'm old,
they're training for world and that's your,
your version of giving up,
then yeah,
that's bad.
But if it's like,
let's say you're like an older guy or whatever and maybe you kind of lost a step
or whatever,
you know,
like,
like people do when they get older sometimes.
Um,
and you're like,
hey,
you know,
this guy's getting nuts.
If I rise to that level of intensity,
I could get hurt or something like that.
And,
and it's like an okay decision knows,
knows you can be smart.
Yeah.
For instance,
if everyone's doing take downs and your knees a little bit tweaked to go,
hey,
you know what exactly right.
That's something I need to check myself on.
Sometimes you do shit
but makes eye.
But that's a big one though.
Like when you,
when you start like what I'm talking about,
what it is you,
when you allow Your Samurai spirit to with her,
that's what we were talking about.
When you start saying,
hey,
you know what,
I'd rather still just keep fighting even though you're getting beat.
Cause the young buck is coming up and sharing and getting to train more than you
and you've got to work and hey,
you know what,
come tap me out then.
Yeah.
You still got it like maintained the spirit.
A lot of,
lot of times when people get married or they,
um,
they stopped training or whatever and they blame it on the marriage or they
blame it on their careers or something like that,
it's like,
ah,
I lost it.
You know what I do when people say that?
People say,
I'll say,
oh,
you know,
someone will talking to someone,
they will,
you
don't,
man.
I used to train a lot and I'll be like,
oh,
I mean,
wait,
what?
What happened?
And as we know,
I got,
I got two kids and you know,
I was just working a lot and I was like,
oh yeah,
I got four kids
in their,
in their defense,
everybody's different.
If they have two kids you have for their net,
you and their kids aren't here,
so there's that.
Plus my wife,
it was good to go.
Yeah,
it does make it hard.
It totally does.
And it does make it harder with the kids and a career and stuff like that and
say it was easy.
That's what I was going to say.
It's like could be slightly invalid.
It's invalid at the end of the day because you need to Kep your warrior,
your summarize spirit or you didn't and if you didn't,
then you allowed these things which are true by the way,
by your as far as what you're,
not you,
but obviously this person,
this hypothetical person,
if their career or family got in the way,
you allowed that to happen.
It's not easy.
Totally not easy sup to you though.
At the end of the day,
I think
Samurai are never without a sword on their hip.
This means of course that an armed enemy will arm himself,
so you got to always expect,
in my mind,
always expect that your opponent is going to be armed business life,
whatever you're doing always,
you can always expect that your opponent is ready.
Hmm.
I always expect them to be ready next.
As a Samurai you should take care as to where your feet step as a matter of
course,
you never want to be off balance in case the unexpected occurs.
Well that's pretty self explanatory.
The amplifying information says Sam or I have to keep themselves prepared at all
times to respond.
They have to be able to react calmly in a situation without any panic.
Boom.
Again,
does that apply to everything?
Yes,
it does.
No doubt about it.
Samurai who are not aware of the things they should know are like cats that do
not know how to catch mice
not aware of things they should know.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Samurais should be continuously thinking about military manners matters.
Fail to do this at your peril.
Those that serve in the military should be in a continuous state of thinking of
warfare to be negligent in this will result in failure and defeat.
You know what I told us?
I tell us the young military people that I work with that this is your job,
this is your profession,
and you got to do everything you can to master it and that means what is being
said right here.
Continuously thinking about military matters matters.
Any Samurai who spends too much time playing ball Cotto guitar plucking the
mouth harp or playing the flute are liable to become a coward.
And here it says those in the military should never become overly and fashioned
it infatuated with diversionary games.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Now at some point I'd like to get better at guitar,
but apparently you know,
you get it wrong,
turn it downward.
Next,
Wallace Samurai may be clumsy about some things.
The spear,
the horse and the bow should not be among them.
I like that.
This one is key.
Samurai should make a habit of regularly listening to tales of military combat
and rely on the learning.
Found their in.
This is a blatant plug for Jocko podcast I think,
and here's the amplifying information.
By listening to such tales regularly,
it will keep them fresh in your mind.
When actual combat arises,
they will be of benefit.
Boom,
boom.
And I've definitely got that feedback.
I've gotten all kinds of good feedback about that from guys in the military that
they can relate because I'm telling you the stories that we tell over and over
again,
they're stories that happened are real things.
Firing,
maneuver.
There's people acting weird.
There's the enemy doing things.
These things are real.
It is definitely helpful.
The more you,
I wish I would've known more when I was in,
I would have been infinitely better.
You don't have enough of a focus on it though.
Yeah.
It kind of goes for everything to Ya.
Like cause it kind of keeps your whole um,
like approach to life in that,
that battle frame,
you know,
so everything,
it gives you different perspective.
And I talk about this all the time.
If,
if you learn the arm bar right from the mountain,
you learn it one way,
but you don't realize,
man,
there's,
there's infinitely different ways to do it.
You can get it from the guard,
you can get it from the bottom position,
you can get it from across side.
You can get all the,
you can get the arm lock from all these different positions.
And every time you see it from a different angle,
you get better at all of them.
So every time you see a military situation from a different angle,
from a leadership perspective,
from the ground trooper,
from perspective,
from the cold,
for the hot,
from the desert,
from the mountains,
you learn something,
it makes you better at it.
So,
so looking at things through that for,
you know,
whatever it may be,
whether it be military history,
whatever,
you're always kind of looking at things in that way.
Like we had this guy,
we called him uncle Jill.
He was a friend of the family in Hawaii,
in Hawaii and his,
he was a really good artist,
but he climbed trees and take us just the tree climbing.
I know random he'd thing actually me talking it right now,
but it was
super good fun.
But this guy,
he'd always be like,
there's reason that there's an instinct of,
of climate,
right?
P I think humans have an instinct to climb things.
Yeah.
Makes Sense.
I don't know.
He seems like it.
Yeah.
Okay.
And Air,
it would be weird because he pulled out that climbing thing.
He'd be like,
I bet I could climb up there.
You know,
that it's kind of like,
Dang,
if you kind of have these like looking at things through frames that are,
that are useful,
you know,
like I think it's like,
man,
you can figure a lot of things out then you,
a lot of people wouldn't figure out,
you know,
like I know V it was like that for sure.
But like thing that's like a good shot.
How that,
you know,
no ones don't care.
That's just a beach or whatever.
But I was a young enlisted guy and I had a friend that would,
would,
uh,
he would kind of like your friend,
like,
like to climb things.
This guy would jump off things with Joe.
Uncle Joe would climb things.
This guy would jump off and we were on this obstacle course,
this random obstacle course.
Then he climbed,
he also liked to climb,
but then he got to the top of this thing.
He was probably,
let's call it 18 feet.
And I'm,
um,
I slid down the rope and the other guy slid down the rope and the chief that we
are with slid down the rope
and I look up and ego and he's got kinda got like an a puzzled look on his face.
The Guy Jumper,
the jumper has got like a,
uh,
a curious look on his face and he says,
I think I could jump down this 18 feet and I go do it.
And the chief goes,
don't do it.
And he said,
I think I could make it and that.
And I said,
do it.
And the chief says,
don't do it.
And I go,
10 bucks,
chief goes,
shut up Jocko,
don't do it.
And I go 20 bucks.
And he goes,
shut up and write as he saying that the jumper jumped and did it and he made it
jump like 18 feet down.
Just landed PLF,
PLF parachute landing fall.
Oh wait.
You break it down and roll kind of.
It's almost like a judo fall,
but with your,
yeah,
kind of like it disperses the way he did it.
That's good man in trouble.
In a good hearted way.
Nah,
man,
you could've gotten her.
No.
It would've been your fault.
All that kind of thing.
It would have been.
Yeah,
I know.
You knew his jumping weakness is addiction to jumping in.
You exploited it.
Next Samurai should keep in their hearts the fact that they only die once.
Forgetting this will result in failure.
Samurai who forget this is the,
this is so this,
this one's a little bit tricky for me to understand.
Samurai should keep in their hearts the fact that they only die once for getting
this will result in failure and the amplification on this one says Samurai who
forget that they can die at
any time and in any place could end up in humiliating failure.
In other words,
throwing your body into the river and relying on feet to determine if you float
to the shallows.
If you love your life too much,
you will always add didn't failure.
So this is what I found interesting about this one.
There's a dichotomy here.
Hmm.
The dichotomy to me is if,
if you care too much about being alive,
then you won't take any risk and you will be too scared and you'll that's going
to be bad.
Yeah.
So that,
that's that we know that that one's bad.
So we know we get that one.
If you love your life too much,
you will always end in failure.
Maybe not always,
but it's going to definitely play a role.
You'll be too cautious.
You won't take any risk.
You'll be scared that one's going to be,
you'll hesitate.
Yeah.
So we get that one.
Um,
the keeping your hearts that you only die once.
Okay.
So that means to me,
okay,
so you can die at any time.
I'm going to make it worth it in my mind.
Make it dope.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then this whole thing about,
okay,
let me read it word for word.
Throwing your body into the river and relying on feet to determine if you float
to the shallows.
I don't know.
To me that could be taken two ways
and I think they're both okay.
Number one is like,
Hey,
don't just throw,
just,
just jump.
Don't just jump into the river.
See and let fate decide if you're going to make her,
I don't know.
You prepare and you train and you're ready.
Hmm.
The other way it can be taken us.
You know what?
You can't control everything.
You got to go jump into the river and if you,
if you're meant to make it,
you're going to make it either one of those can possibly set your mind at ease.
And what I,
you know when you've heard me talk about fear to take away the warrior kid,
right?
Yeah.
Weigh the warrior king.
What happens?
You prepare everything you can,
but then eventually you gotta jump and see if the water,
do you feel current takes you to the shallow water again?
Yeah.
That's the way it's got to be.
So that's the way I took that one.
Yeah.
I read a lot into that one.
I think the first one just because the other one would do would add kind of
additional x like requirement required explanation.
Like
you agree with preparing I think.
Yeah.
I agree with her parent.
I think the,
the of the two that you just said,
the first one I think makes more sense to me that that's what he meant.
So you're,
you're thinking that he meant
to prepare the best of your ability.
Yeah,
exactly right.
Like he like it's Kinda like you only have one life and if you're going to die,
make it legit.
Don't be dying trying to cross the river.
You better die doing something big time,
you know,
kind of thing.
There's one more little addition that I believe that Eric actually added on
here.
Yeah.
This is his note.
It says the line about throwing your body into the river and relying on faith to
determine if you floated the shallows is a very famous,
it's not that famous because I googled it.
I couldn't find it.
Now he says,
enter battle fleet,
fully committed and perhaps you will emerge at the end.
I think that makes some sense.
It's for me,
prepare the best of your ability.
Yeah.
Be fully committed and then don't worry about what the is going to come because
you can't control everything.
I think we're good.
I think we'll agree.
Now this one I had to,
I had to
dig on this one a little bit too.
Samurais study a great many things.
However,
the single focus of their learning is death
and then
okay.
Thee,
the amplified information here is whilst Samurai do intensive training and study
a variety of topics,
what it all boils down to is seeking death so that that kind of,
that one
I tried to figure out what that meant or at least what it means to me,
and I think too,
the most positive way I could cause seeking death.
Right.
They are you really seeking death?
Is that what you're trying to do?
Well,
no.
If you're,
you're not helping the cause.
If you're seeking death,
right.
You don't want to die.
Yeah.
That's not our goal.
It's an occurrence that could happen in a matter of fact,
that's going to happen all of us,
but the way I look at it is what we're trying to learn.
We're trying to understand and master his death and the fear of death.
If we can get over that
little hurdle.
Yeah,
Right.
Then you've mastered that and once you're actually saying,
I'm going forward.
Yeah,
I'm prepared,
then we're good,
we're good.
B also just like just,
you know,
as far as seeking challenges go,
you want to seek one challenge,
then you want to seek a bigger challenge.
But he says he can guess Bro.
Yeah,
that's what I mean though.
So you're pursuing the ultimate challenge that bt kind of like go through what
your average point break come on board.
Yes.
There you go.
Where you know Bodie,
he's looking for the Wa the 50 year storm.
Remember it's the same thing.
So he's like I'm going to be there and all this stuff.
He's always trying to push the limit.
All these things,
bank robbery,
skydive and all this stuff and you know,
finds the PR.
The 50 year storm knows it hundred percent knows it.
In fact,
I was kind of like his escape from the law
catch one of those least dies.
Everyone knew it.
Did he really die or with it or a sequel where he lived,
he died.
It was all kind of,
I guess now that you mentioned it for a seat,
there's room for a sequel.
Exactly.
Right.
But he was equal.
They remade the same movie.
Yeah.
Do you see that one?
No,
not bad.
Let's see what they're doing there.
Um,
you know,
a little bit too.
Like you could tell they're trying to target maybe some teenagers or something
like that,
but,
um,
not bad.
Sat through it.
Glad I,
it wasn't a waste of time.
All right.
This one again,
had to,
had to dig a little deeper on this one.
If you were to ask what con,
what is it that concerns a Samurai?
The answer is I want to live.
I want to live.
Okay.
So,
okay.
To break that down a little bit,
I look at the word concerns
and what concerns means isn't worries or it's not,
I don't think they're using it more like,
oh,
that,
that concerns me.
Yeah.
Like,
like it's not saying,
Hey,
what,
what concerns me or what I'm thinking about.
It's what I'm worried about.
What I'm worried about is someone that's saying,
I want to live.
That's what they're worried about.
Gotcha.
Cause someone that's saying I want to live in.
I think you can apply this to a lot of stuff.
Let's take negotiation.
Right.
You get negotiation with somebody.
Yeah.
If you're saying I want to win this deal,
I want him to steal.
I want it.
You're at a position of weakness.
So even in business you can't have the position of I want to live,
I want to live,
I want to buy,
I want to score this deal.
Yeah.
What about I want to make,
I want to get this deal done.
Like No.
If you're actually negotiating,
you need to be able to walk away from the deal and say,
no,
we're done.
I'm out.
Strangely they say the same thing about picking up girls.
Same thing.
Yes.
Okay.
If you're all,
I hope I get this girl,
I'll get this girl.
That girl doesn't want to be with a guidance to us.
Brutus Rick,
Dude.
Yeah.
The amplification here says ain't answer to the question.
What do Samurai worry about?
The answer is having the desire to extend their own life is something worth
regretting.
Okay.
Samurai who value their own lives are not worth a farthing.
Yeah.
So we've got,
that's,
I think you need to be able to set aside
that
well,
I think it applies to everything.
I think so,
yeah.
If you're so concerned,
like in Jujitsu,
totally concerned about winning and,
and not tapping out.
Yeah.
You're not going to learn.
And,
and even worse,
you're not going to compete.
You're not even gonna roll with not to do well.
Yeah.
And he still apprehensive and,
yeah.
Yeah.
I had a place a lot for sure.
Okay.
Here's a good one.
It is important to understand
that
should the mirror in a Samurai's heartbeat unclouded than the opponent will be
clearly reflected in it.
Good.
One amplification.
Any Samurai whose will is from can be described as having a mind that is
unclouded.
So if your will is from,
think about that,
if your will is from,
you can be described as having a mind that is unclouded in such a state,
the strength or weakness of the opponent will be perfectly reflected.
Hm
Next Samurai cast off thoughts of both life and death.
Their mind is set on moving forward.
Amplification.
Samurai,
do not dwell even for a moment on whether they live or die.
Fulfilling Their Mission Requires Samurai to advance.
It is what they do best,
what they were made for.
Yeah,
that is.
I think that that one breaks down to
being able to clear your mind on what happened the last go round.
Right?
Not worried about the future,
not worried about the,
like when you're doing something like if you're competing,
you make a mistake.
You have to put that out of your brain completely and you need to,
okay,
that mistake happened or you did something great.
You can't jump up and down and be all happy about that.
You need to just clear your mind and keep the mind empty.
You can't get freaked out about the next shot or the last shot.
We learned that in shooting like this is something that you see all the time
when we're shooting,
we do little.
Basically when you're shooting in the teams,
everything is a competition and you'd see a guy,
you're shooting head plates and they'd have six head plates in a row,
which is the steel plate about the size of a hit and you got to shoot him an,
and when you shoot it,
you instantly know if you hit a risk cause it goes ping,
Ping,
Ping.
And if you see a guy that can't put the last one out of their head,
you know it's Ping,
Ping,
mag change.
It's,
it's bad guy.
That's really good.
He'll miss and just,
he'll dismiss and he doesn't even think about it.
You're here,
you hear pink,
pink,
pink dipping,
dipping.
You just,
no,
no factor.
Yeah,
it's,
it is the proverbial choking,
you know,
like she'll get the like why is this guy choking at the end when he's killing it
before you can train your mind to do that.
You can train your mind to do that.
So where you're just,
and actually when I be shooting a lot,
I could get to that point and then if I'm not shooting a bunch,
I would lose that pink.
Get frustrated.
Yeah,
you're shooting regularly.
You get that,
you get past that and the older you get and the more you do it,
the more you can just say,
nope,
don't care.
You know what a phrase would,
would the would always work with me when someone,
like if you had a coach or something where,
you know,
in football and you'd have this where like you,
you'd be winning the whole game,
you know?
And in the fourth quarter it's like,
oh my God,
we just run out the clock or I don't,
you have that feeling and guys that choke a lot of time and that's not to
mention the other team is thinking the exact opposite.
We've got nothing to lose.
We're going to hit them.
We're going to take risks,
we're going to do all that,
you know,
so that's why guys can win or teams can win at the last minute,
even though they've been getting their ass kicked old little game.
Um,
fights kind of like that too.
But I don't know,
fighters seem to have like more of a will on enough for some reason.
But either way.
Either way.
I Dunno.
Um,
but the,
the phrase I would always help me as if someone would just put it in my sit,
say finish strong,
just finish strong,
finish strong.
But like,
yeah,
it's almost like the,
or they'll say punch it through or something,
you know,
something like that that indicates don't let up at the end mentally,
just go,
just keep pushing the way you put that is a little bit different then getting
distracted by what just happened.
Yeah.
But because they say,
yeah,
it is a little bit different.
But in its critical role,
when you played football,
what was it you were trying to do each play where you weren't your receiver?
Yeah.
Okay.
So let's say you missed her catch that you should have caught,
you had to be able to put that out of your head.
So it,
it's just a mental state where it's like finish strong.
It's finished strong in your mind,
you know?
So yeah.
Don't worry about your introduced.
I'd get this all the time,
man.
When when I'd win a match and then I'd win another one.
You don't to do that,
you gotta win like Matt just till the file after two matches,
I just start feeling this pressure.
Like it's almost like one my,
my two match win streak.
It's about to come to an end.
It's all like the pressure and then you win one more and then the pressure's
even on more is weird.
It's like,
oh I wish I did.
I wish I was done is weird.
Oh Dog.
But if someone would say something along the lines of finish strong,
it would just cure the whole thing because you're thinking about all these
comments mentally throw you off.
I don't know.
The pressure.
Somebody say something to you that would make you freak out even more?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
If someone said,
oh you got this.
Or if someone says,
Hey,
at least you made it this far,
would you then back off?
But it's hard when you're dealing with kids.
It would,
it would,
you know,
like,
like I got kids,
you got kids too.
But you know when you got kids that are doing something competitive.
Yeah.
Like Jujitsu or wrestling and let's say they're winning and,
and you could tell them,
hey,
you've done good so far.
Go out there and have fun.
Which is cool.
Yeah.
Or You could say,
hey,
you need to focus more now,
but because these people are going to be getting tougher.
Yeah.
Both of those to me would throw me off.
Cause when you say just relaxed,
you've made it this far that tells them that it's okay to not to beat,
to checkout,
you know.
So it depends on what their state of mind is to go into that,
that comment or to go into the situation where he said,
it's almost to the time I feel like I want to tell people either people I'm
coaching,
well no I shouldn't say that when I want to tell my kids,
relax,
go out there,
have fun.
Go out there and have a good time.
Yeah.
Because I think that is easier on their brains and to what your point was
earlier,
when people let loose and they,
they don't feel the pressure,
they tend to perform better at her.
Yeah.
Yeah,
I agree with that fully.
But if it's like if that's like kind of the underlying attitude like relax,
have fun regardless of what Matt First Match,
last finals match,
whatever,
then yes,
I think so.
But if it's like come on you,
you got this,
we'll do,
you can do this,
you can do this.
And then right when he gets to the final then you say,
okay,
yeah you made it this far.
So it's bad.
I think he can be bad depending on how they take it,
but if they take it like I wouldn't say relax.
Yeah.
I said go out there and have I go go out there and do what you do.
I say that a,
okay,
so if you say you made it this far MMA fights and be like,
Hey,
do what you do.
That's good to say.
If someone told me that,
go do what you do,
that would really be his guardian and go do what you do.
Yeah.
That's good stuff to say to me.
The,
but anything to put pressure on me.
Like if you do this,
you win.
Like,
you know,
like one more match and that's it.
No,
don't want to say what's interesting like with coaching MMA,
if you'd get a guy in a,
get it into a guy's head,
do not get taken down and they'd go in there that you'd be really hard to take
that person down.
Yeah.
And when you'd say,
Hey,
as soon if you get taken down as soon before you even get on the ground,
you getting back up.
Yeah.
You get that people with that mindset going and it'd be really hard for someone
to take him down and hold no,
cause he's been panicking.
Yeah.
He'd be basically paying them get,
you know.
Yeah.
So interesting.
Here's a good one.
And this is actually the last one.
Fittingly hmm.
Not engaging in any form of study will cause your mind to wander.
This route will result in your spirit becoming unfocused.
Okay.
Then the amplification,
there is nothing wrong with daydreaming,
but if you study,
your spirit will become focused on edge shape to deal with a certain thing.
That shape will then become lost.
In turn,
there was a song that goes,
the drifting and becoming lost is what the mind does.
It becomes your spirit,
the mind of your spirit do not allow your mind to do this.
And Yeah,
I think that that's,
that's something that we actually talk about all the time.
In fact,
that may be the one
very purpose of me doing everything that we do,
which is,
you know,
studying and learning.
And to go back to the question that,
that Eric,
the translator posed to me,
Ken,
any of the rules in this book apply to modern warfare.
As I said,
not only do they apply to modern warfare,
they apply to life.
And the thing is there's nothing new here.
Hmm.
Right?
Just like an arm lock.
There's nothing really new here,
but that doesn't mean that there's nothing really new here.
There's always something new.
We'd sure we've heard these lessons before,
right?
We've heard them from Dick winters.
We've heard them from Bob Hoffman,
we forward them from general patent in Hackworth and we heard them from wooden
leg.
Okay.
And I said this on the first podcast that we did,
the first podcast that we did.
I said,
you know what to do,
do you know,
to be balanced
and you know,
to work out and you know not to be gluttonous with food and you know you
shouldn't sleep late and you know you should keep things clean and organized and
you know that your struggles now will be rewarded in the future.
So you must endure,
endure,
endure the hardship,
endured the suffering,
endure the pain of discipline,
endure the pain of discipline is that in the future you could have the reward
and we know what that reward is.
The reward for discipline
is freedom.
Good.
I think that is all I've got for tonight.
So
Echo,
speaking of rewards and freedom and trying to get better,
do you have any suggestions on maybe some ways to get better for people,
ways that might also at the same time simultaneously support this podcast if
people want it.
Sure.
Do something like that.
Do you want to also,
I think it is important and beneficial to add that you know,
when you endure the suffering pain,
that's metaphors for the most part.
Sometimes it's a real pain and suffering real,
real,
but you do that enough and you get used to it.
And to the point where you kind of like require it in a way like you kind of
want to like,
you know how I used to go on like um,
you know,
like a strict diet in I'd be hungry a lot but at the same time the Diet would be
really effective with a good workout program.
And then so when I go off the program you kind of,
you know,
you feel kind of almost like,
for lack of a better term,
it's like toxic.
Like hold on just a sec,
you know?
Yeah.
You almost,
I kind of miss that hunger in the,
you know,
the cause you kind of associate the hunger that you always have with like being
in good shape and perform for you.
It kind of like,
that's an example of like how it can be,
you know,
you don't like eating a lot.
I Dunno.
It's weird.
You don't even have to amplify it.
Yes,
let's do it.
Yeah.
Like when you're on the program.
It kind of feels good that you're on the program.
You're suffering for sure.
There's some quote unquote suffering there,
but it feels good.
And especially when you do eat almost 40 when you think about the opposite of
that,
which is when you're off the program yes.
And you feel like crap.
Yeah.
Any [inaudible] and yeah.
What do you do to make yourself feel better?
What do you do instead of going on the program?
Yeah.
You said you go to the,
you go to the sleeve Oreos.
Yeah,
exactly right.
The answer.
Yeah.
Cause that's like that's wrong answer.
That's the,
that's the instant gratification.
Yeah.
Right.
It's weird.
Opposite of struggling.
Now you're,
you're,
you're not enduring.
Now you're not facing the pain of discipline.
Now you're looking for a short term rewards.
So that's why,
that's why I said I said it in the book.
I said in the book,
the field manual,
right?
Like when you're on the path,
it's,
it's easier to stay on the path and when you fall off the path,
man,
yeah.
People,
people just get,
they go to the downward spiral.
Yeah.
It's like you fall for the trick.
And those I mentioned,
this says it trick your mind.
You like that you're getting it is fans.
And you know,
when you,
uh,
you fall off the patty,
you saying when you feel like crap because you're off the program and the fact
that you're off the program aside from just your physical physicality,
you feel like crap.
So you've got to alleviate that feeling.
So you go to something that's going to give you pleasure,
pleasure,
pleasure you in short term when you needed longterm,
you know,
so that's what you do.
That is a good,
a good thing I do that when let's say I don't feel I've been traveling,
been eating crap,
the way to get back on the way to feel good again.
It's just to hit yourself.
I mean,
get some,
it's true.
Get some,
do good Catholic.
A good couple base.
Like,
uh,
you know,
in the,
in the field manual,
I've got these various workouts and there's some of those in there that are just
core,
not core as an abs cause we call it gut,
but it's core programs that are fundamental.
Yeah.
And I kind of know where I'm at on them and even if I'm not going to go in there
and do a record performance,
it'll put me back on track.
It'll make,
it'll,
it'll clean my system mentally and physically.
And that's good.
Probably.
I used to do this thing where,
um,
you know,
if your girlfriend you get in a fight or something like that or they break up
with you,
whatever,
you know,
something that makes you in a bad mood for whatever reason.
They used to go to the gym and do eat like shoulders or chest workout,
something that would give like a really,
really hard painful pump.
You know,
that kind of like,
I dunno,
12,
15 reps,
like a minute in between do like eight sets of those,
like massively pumped for some reason I just feel way better.
It's the same thing.
That's what I'm talking about.
The way,
if you can give yourself for me,
you got your,
you got some workouts that are just fundamental.
I don't know what,
Oh,
there's their [inaudible] name for like medicine.
They have medicine,
new medicine,
some medicine workouts.
You got to have some of those medicine workouts that just puts you back on the
back of a path.
Oh yeah.
And then you know what do fast to 24 hours that's bolted.
Do 24 hours.
You feel you feel good?
I'm telling you.
Feel good.
Yeah.
I'll do like 15 now actually.
Pretty often too.
And you're right,
strangely right?
Yeah.
I just read another article.
I read two articles cause people,
people tweet them to me.
One of them was about the intermittent fasting.
We gas what?
It's good for you.
Yeah.
And then the other one was about this whole depletion of will is all not true.
We'll the the lie.
I was right.
The scientists were wrong.
They were saying,
I think with what you're saying,
I think there's like,
no,
no.
So just saying it's straight up wrong with,
there's no,
no,
no.
There's,
I just read an article today that it's wrong that this idea of the depletion of
w,
you know,
if you,
if you have to resist this chocolate chip cookie,
then within in 20 minutes you won't be able to resist the cake because you just
can't resist that much.
It's a lie.
It's an in there.
There's proving now that it is not true.
Not True.
Yeah.
I feel like that's a psychological state.
So it might vary from individual,
but what I'm saying is if you,
if you're on the program and you had some medicine in the morning,
I'm telling you that it's easier to hold the line.
The more you hold the line,
it easier it is to hold the line.
That's the truth.
You know,
get some speaking a hold of the holding the line and the truth.
By the way,
Chuck West some supplements,
John
goes up limits Krill oil,
the main one and joint or Fairsail,
joint warfare,
glucosamine and conjoin
and Curcumin,
which is the other.
There's,
it's not just glucosomine and can Jordan,
yeah,
this cure curcumin and yes.
What is that?
It's more good
for the joints.
Some stuff to wage or fair against joint inflammation.
Pain,
degeneration.
Yeah.
And that's a big deal because again,
I'm going to say I said it before but I think this is critical.
I mean man,
you know,
I'm sure there's like supplements that will help you build your muscles if
you're into building.
I'm sure there is.
But really if you can maintain your joints,
especially if your Jujitsu pushing weights,
any kind of like,
so I like dynamic movement.
Yeah.
You know,
cause your joints take those,
that that brought and they degenerate over time.
Oh they do cause that.
What's happening to you?
It's not over here.
Not for generating.
I'm on joint warfare.
If you're straight up generating,
huh?
Yeah,
no,
no I dig it.
And the,
this is one of the Krill oil thing.
I'm all,
I'm not embarrassed cause it's kind of a funny story at my expense in a little
bit.
It's not funny.
Funny,
but it is that I was looking for Krill oil to my father in law.
I know the truth.
Yeah.
I'm like over here pushing Krill oil like in life.
I mean,
you know,
um,
Brian,
his name is Brian.
Remember we went to the retreat in Maine or Brian,
the black belt.
They came New Hampshire guys.
Um,
so I kind of keep contact with him.
He's like,
he's like,
Hey,
do you have any,
like what's the cool supplement or whatever.
I was like,
Bruh,
you know,
and I sent him some,
some of mine,
I didn't get the report back to,
I was like the other day.
But nonetheless in life I'm straight up pushing it.
Tell Greg about it all the time.
I don't think,
I don't think here.
Maybe I gave him some,
I dunno,
but it's like,
you know the can you get benefits for something and then you're like pushing it
on other people.
Some people do it with a brick grudgingly.
Sure.
Just various things.
You know,
books,
music.
Why don't we do that with music?
Like if you don't like my,
you know,
like I'll be like,
hey,
listen to this song.
It's the best song.
And then like you don't like getting it and I'm actually mad at you or you're
mad at me cause you don't like it.
Why is that?
Cause I just don't like your music.
I know.
Bravo.
I think we kind of equate it to our identity in a way.
It's kind of what I do with Krill oil.
It's part of my identity now.
It's a part of my joints identity.
I can tell you that.
And joint warfare.
Good ones.
Also await.
I didn't tell you where you can get this.
Joint warfare and super supercrew or [inaudible] dot com click on the top.
Does labs.
Actually it's on the front page too.
It's on Jocko store too by the way.
Jocko store.com but yeah,
that's where you can get it if you want it,
if you want it.
A lot of people have been asking for subscription like oh recurring.
You just can get it every month.
That's what it should be.
I know because we'll get it set up.
Yeah cause he gives it into the last three pills.
Even six.
He'd take the three,
like they only have three left and I got to take this tomorrow after tomorrow,
you know,
two day shipping and unless you've got to overnight shipping situation.
Yeah,
there's,
you don't want to do that to yourself.
I know.
You don't,
you actually,
for real though that going on.
Yes.
Good idea.
Thank you John and Pete also,
there's some good keys on there.
Jack was Ziggy Tacos a rash guard.
We'll start with that.
American hands.
I've worn it many times.
Can I talk about 19% improvement in performance?
I got tapped out by nd.
So,
so far no got tapped out by youtube.
Maybe
different than normal.
Right?
I couldn't resist 19 I'm just saying the jury's still out.
I can't come from really?
Yeah,
but,
but if you remember,
cause you were,
you remember I was wearing one of our rash guards.
It's more action.
Bigger.
Yeah.
And uh,
I kinda got God after the right.
And
so really in theory you're 19 plus and my knee 19 plus kind of canceled itself
out really.
But I felt like maybe if you got 19 I felt like that day I had like 2020 1%.
26 yeah.
You were bringing it like 26 because you weren't typically don't wear that.
Right.
You don't really wear rash,
you weren't happy on the final guillotine?
No.
I think it was a cobra.
And you literally said,
I saw that calming.
Yeah.
And that was one of those comments that was meant to kind of deflate my victory,
you know,
like you saw coming and it was so obvious and it was just like I just got lucky
and blah blah blah.
And I just,
I just said,
yeah,
definitely.
I'm just really telegraphed that one.
I can't believe how pathetic it was.
You want me to give you a breakdown of if you're guilty,
you're guilty team Cobra,
which I think is even more so than the guillotine.
Like you have such a good way to like get it and you're one of those guys that
like,
you're probably walking like right now,
you're thinking about guillotine right now.
That's what I think.
That's what it feels like a lot.
It's like when you go for it,
it just lands perfectly.
It's not the kind where,
you know,
um,
not,
yep.
No adjustments.
So it's gotten to the point over literally like what,
like almost a decade of training with you.
And that thing getting sunk in that efficiently on my own net almost wants it.
Then
you're not that far from the truth.
It's like my body like notes like,
Hey,
we've been here before.
This is what my brain is almost like.
I can feel my brain as a separate entity tells my body sometimes if I get you in
a guillotine that you go crazy trying to defend it and then like,
and you'll get out in the next one I'll be like,
yeah,
he's going down.
It's like man,
I don't want that beef again cause what?
What I,
what I had to do to get out of that first one is like bro I can't do
it.
It's not worth it.
That's exactly what it is and I think that's how my whole body reacts when I
feel it gets sunk in.
It was kind,
Kinda calm man.
This again,
we've been down this road,
same outcome,
you know,
my body's used to that outcome so it just kind of accommodates it.
That's what it feels like and I think that's part of what I meant by it's like
think your body is okay with me getting here.
I think so too.
I don't like the fact that it's like Jack
I think,
I think talking about it might help or it might straight up not rash guards gies
made in America,
which is awesome,
so that's awesome.
Yeah,
everyone should know that and they make them like make them make them,
they don't like shipping some stuff and then,
hey guys,
okay,
are we starting to make,
yeah.
Even though it's been,
you know,
yeah they make or make up from the thread and the gave the keys.
I think he's good videos coming out.
Is that what the words mean?
Video Megan,
Megan confused with,
with Amanda by the way.
Whole long story.
I won't go into it right now.
Nonetheless,
videos out making mid the video.
It's a good one actually.
You kind of made the video to understand it didn't make anything.
Nonetheless,
a jock who's gives out other geese on origin.
All good.
I got two other ones,
so three or a gin gies altogether me.
That's the only Gisele everywhere.
I think.
Unless someone else can make the own their own material in America and you know,
provide the same everything,
then hey,
maybe,
maybe not.
But just saying has it right now.
That's how it is.
Also
kettlebells.
I know I'm going to keep you updated on my kettle bells situation.
I'm addicted.
I'm addicted to them collecting and doing them.
So I got one more that the cyclops from on it.
The designer one?
No,
no.
Uh,
what do you call it?
The regulation regular ones and none of those.
Anyway,
cyclops I think is 40 something pounds.
I only got one.
I'm getting out of jail at that one too.
Anyway,
the good thing about these is
they are balanced because a lot of times,
and from what I hear,
I don't know,
but from what I hear,
like a lot of the designer ones,
they're not balanced.
So what I'm saying anyway,
these are balanced and that's the one,
the ones I use and I'm addicted to the workout starts slow with these.
And when you do it though,
are you still doing a lot of kettle bells?
Yeah,
I do decent amount of kettle bells.
I was doing some Turkish get ups the other day.
Yeah,
but I didn't get that.
I thought it was going to get really into Turkish get ups,
but I did it a few times and just it didn't,
it didn't stick.
You know what I mean?
You know how to understand stuff just sticks.
Even though it was cool.
Oh,
you know what it was?
I did it with the 35 pound one than I did with a 54 pound one and I was like,
Dang,
this is a good exercise.
Hard.
And then I went online to look up exercises in the news ones with guys doing it
with 185 pounds,
like doing it and made it.
Maybe I just got discouraged.
I got encouraged when I see that.
Oh yeah,
yeah.
Huh?
You take it as like a challenge.
Yeah.
Me and my whole outlook is different anyway.
When you do these kettlebells,
if you want the cool ones,
to me,
kettlebells are dope,
but if you want an extra dope you go to on it.com/jocko get your kettle bells
are there.
Just look at them.
They got light.
One's heavy ones.
I say start light,
but hey,
whatever your level is,
you know,
get them.
Also when you get your copy of what is the,
the the translated hundred rules of war.
Yes.
Yeah.
Which I'm pronouncing wrong.
Sorry.
Yeah,
see and that's really Eric and okay,
so I put these books,
all these books,
if you didn't already say it again.
I put all of the books on our website,
Jocko,
podcast.com and this is for this very reason Jocko doesn't know how to pronounce
some of this stuff.
No,
especially the Japanese stuff.
You know,
he comes to me for help.
I help.
It's not smooth processes.
What I'm saying.
So I tried to smooth it out a little bit.
Jocko,
podcast.com on the top says books from the episodes.
Click on there.
Look,
this is episode 101 boom from episode one on one,
the a hundred rules of war,
even though there's only 97 okay.
If you want to get some other book,
you can still click through.
Yeah.
And support the podcast mean if you buy a book that is completely off of what we
would normally talk about.
Like what?
I don't know.
Something that's not about war.
The Lion,
the witch and the wardrobe.
Yeah.
If you go to buy that book,
yeah,
you can just click.
It still supports the puzzle supports and a half to be the but,
but when you buy it,
yeah.
Just click.
Anyone's cannot bind a book.
Even if you're buying Delta clubs,
golf clubs,
duct tape,
Longmore,
grocery bag holders.
Hmm.
Even though I don't recommend that stuff,
it'd be carry grocery bags.
You carry them with your hands.
Both hands.
All of them too,
by the way.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Click through there.
So on a website joke about yes.
Dot.
Tom.
Good way to support.
Also subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't already on iTunes,
stitcher,
Google play,
Spotify is that I don't use Spotify.
Spotify is not,
you can't get,
well I don't think you can get it,
but there's a bunch of any podcasting platform.
I don't think Spotify is one of them.
We had requests for Spotify cause then you could play it on Alexa,
but I can play it on our an Alexa right now you can say Alexa play the latest
Jocko podcast actually in not to split hairs but it's called Amazon Echo.
Alexa is just the name you say.
Yeah but Alexis is what you're saying.
Yeah.
So that's what I said.
No,
you said you can get it on Alexa.
Oh looks like technique.
The difference.
I just want us to go in correct and did sane and doing the right thing.
That's all.
Nonetheless subscribe if you haven't already is.
It's so put it this way.
I'm not saying subscribe.
I'm saying subscribing is a good way to support also on youtube.
Subscribe to the Youtube Channel.
Put some videos on there.
Excerpts,
not as many excerpts as I did last week this week cause it got,
I learned this new video thing that we we talked about earlier.
I won't go into it,
but
it's pretty technical.
But I wound up getting like obsessed with it.
So like for,
I think he was like 11 hours a day for three days.
I'm making this clip.
That's like three seconds long learning.
So I didn't get to the excerpts is what I'm saying.
But as a result,
I think there's,
I think the next video that it releases going to have some new things to,
it might be something that only I'm noticing.
Maybe,
maybe not.
But nonetheless that's going to be,
oh it is.
Either way.
The point there is subscribe to Youtube.
It's a good way to support,
yeah.
I want to do a youtube live.
Figure out how to do that.
Yeah.
It's not that hard.
So let's just see youtube
like a Facebook live and youtube.
Yeah.
Cause I think it'd be cool to be stored on youtube instead of store on Facebook.
Right?
Yeah.
I think it's just a matter of he gets,
it doesn't matter.
Ultimately it's just a video.
Yeah.
But if it's a,
if it's stored on,
on Youtube,
people can go back and be reading it and whatever.
And I just started watching it.
If it's on Facebook,
it's way buried in some random your feet.
Yeah.
What do you call it?
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Timeline,
whatever.
Yeah.
Maybe I'll talk to Zachs on that one
nonetheless.
Youtube does a good one to subscribe.
Got some other videos aside from just the video version of this podcast.
That's the good,
that's the main reason I think to subscribe.
If you're interested in that kind of stuff and you can say,
you know,
you can get a notification if you're,
you don't need it,
but you can get one.
Also,
Jack was a store.
It's called Jocko store chocolate store.com.
Got some new stuff on there.
Straight up
rash guards.
Hoodies are up.
I know I've been saying it but they're up though,
is what I'm saying.
It's got some hats.
I am putting beanies on there.
Oh yes.
That's good.
I hope your thick beanies there.
Uh,
I don't know.
Regular.
I didn't know there was.
No,
I've been doing some research.
This is a good beanie.
Okay.
From all,
I kind of extrapolated all the,
you know,
the advice on online and these are the good ones.
I'm also some new rash guards.
K,
the new rash guard is
a rash guard that says small action on one side.
Big reaction on the other side.
When I worked for the first time,
uh,
keeling,
Taylor [inaudible] said he'd eat it.
No,
he didn't know the layers,
but he saw it and he was like the essence of Jujitsu and I was like,
oh,
because it is right.
Small action beak reactions,
what we're hoping for you.
Interesting.
Queuing judo.
Kiwi.
Yeah.
He knew.
He knows about the way.
Also a less,
some women's stuff on there,
which is cool.
I think some patches on their shirts.
I'm going to have a new shirt coming out.
I don't,
I don't have an issue.
You have a new show coming out?
Do I know what it is?
Nope.
Oh,
interesting.
Not yet.
A lot of times I'll get input from the online people,
from the people and I kind of,
you know,
most of the time it's like one off things,
like who I heard chuck,
let's say this one thing,
this one time back then I really liked it and we would make a great shirt kind
of thing.
And um,
although they're usually write,
a lot of times I'm thinking,
hmm,
maybe that might not translate into real picky and choosy as,
or what I'm hearing.
Yeah.
Put it this way.
A lot of people have to hit me with it.
And this was one of those,
hmm.
I've actually mentioned it before.
It's called back to the book.
Oh,
I think it's coming out.
Anyway,
that one's coming out too.
Jacobus store,
Jocko,
store.com
take a look at this stuff on there.
If you see something you like,
get something.
Also psychological warfare on all of our,
this is what psychological refers on all of our
journeys.
I'm going back to attorneys.
Someone requested something the other day and it was actually better than
campaign or journey,
but I forget what it was.
Dang.
So it's better just not that much better.
No,
it was better,
but I can't remember it.
I see a lot of stuff to the street.
You do see a lot of stuff well,
on our campaign against weakness journey,
every once in a while we'll run into roadblocks,
points of weakness,
hopefully less than more.
More Times than not.
We don't.
We know what you're trying to see.
What I'm saying,
not very clearly.
Hopefully not very often,
but one,
the
infrequent time comes where you run into those weaknesses on infrequent time,
but it's cool.
I know.
We know what you mean bro.
The nut frequent.
Yeah.
The rare time that you run into weaknesses do not worry because psychological
warfare is an album with tracks that helps you right through that.
Most situations,
pretty much all situations really waking up early,
skipping workouts,
procrastination,
staying on the program,
Diet.
Why is all this stuff?
A lot of stuff,
a bunch of tracks on there and it's Jocko telling you pragmatically ways that
you can practice practical,
right?
Practical meaning you can practice these things.
It's not just some philosophical slash inspirational stuff,
it's to say do,
yeah,
it's more do practical,
just kind of the team word for it,
but nonetheless practical advice coming directly from Jocko of directly into
your ear on why you shouldn't give in to these weaknesses.
It's like a little spot in your campaign.
That's what psychological warfare is so good on.
It's a real good on [inaudible] number one spoken word albums on iTunes for
about nine months and it finally got beaten out by another album called
discipline equals freedom field manual,
which is people keep asking me,
it's available as an album with tracks on iTunes,
Amazon music,
Google play and other MP three platforms.
Also on Amazon you can get Jocko white tea.
What's good about Jocko white tea is if you drink Jocko white tea,
you are guaranteed 100% to be able to deadlift 8,000 pounds.
Minimum minimum.
Yeah,
I don't care.
What's your body weight?
One 25 cool.
8,000 pound dead lift,
so the guarantee like that,
we're looking pretty good.
Try it out.
There's some books where the warrior kid,
by the way just finished where the word kid book number two,
what the whole thing or at the draft the draft.
I mean there's gonna be some edits.
Yeah,
the story is a story is completely done.
It's a good story.
I uh,
my nephew read it and he said it's better than the first one that's saying a lot
because normally the second one left me a little message and you know what as a
message said,
hey uncle Jocko,
that's what it said.
And he's,
he's in fifth grade.
So it's a pretty accurate assessment.
We're assuming from him he
study.
But the book number one is outright now and it is the book that you wish you had
when you were a kid.
I wish I had it when I was a kid.
It didn't have it.
No one had,
hadn't written it yet.
No.
Hadn't learned the lessons.
So if you want to give a kid a better life,
get in this book also extreme ownership.
Check it out.
New Edition is coming out.
Matter of fact,
let me rephrase that.
New Edition is out.
It is available right now.
It has a new forward where we talk about kind of what we've seen since the book
came out.
It has color pictures in it.
Ooh,
new color pictures.
It has echoes name in it.
Why is it that goes naming it echoes name and his,
isn't it?
Because we took Q and a from the podcast about leadership
and put the really important questions and answers in there so you can refer
back to them without having to go through 101 podcast and find the one question
that you want to get.
No,
now you can find it in the book also.
It's got a new cover on it,
which is black more cool.
And you know,
because the Q and a is from you,
I kind of need to thank everyone because this book is not just life in me
anymore.
Now it's Lafe and me and echo and everyone that asks questions and uh,
help with the podcast by asking questions.
So thanks to you all for the new version of our new book.
Also,
the discipline equals freedom field manual is now available worldwide.
And if you've got questions,
this book has answers.
If you're wondering what workout should I do?
What martial arts should I train in?
How do I know what a good Jujitsu gym is?
What should I eat?
What should I do when I'm injured?
What should I do if I don't feel like working out?
What should I do?
Something bad happens.
How should I overcome failure?
If you've got those kinds of questions,
this book has the answers.
Discipline equals freedom field manual.
Get it for yourself and get it for anyone else that might want answers to these
questions.
The book is not normal.
It's not normal.
I know it's not normal cause you know why I'm not normal.
No,
the book is,
it's black and the book,
it only has a black cover.
It has black pages as well,
so some people don't like that.
And you know what I said,
don't read it.
If you don't,
if you don't want him to read that,
cool.
Don't read it.
And as I said,
if you want to get the book on audio,
it is not on audible.
It is on MP3 as an album with tracks.
You can get it through iTunes,
Amazon music and Google play.
That way you can listen to it as an album with tracks.
This is a book that you don't sit there,
it's not a story.
It's not a story.
You might want to listen to one section of it at a different time.
You might be saying,
Hey,
I need to listen to a section about destroy your mode,
right?
How do I get into destroy your mode?
One day you might want to read about the fear of failure or he listened to with
the fear of failure.
One day you might need to hear sugarcoated lies.
One day you might want to hear about the war path,
so he knew when you have it as an album with tracks,
you can listen to it in whatever order you want.
You can set it as your alarm and you can put it in your play list,
that kind of thing,
which you can't do with a lame audible book.
So that's that.
Also if you like the leadership principles that we talk about on this podcast
and you want to get them for your team or business that we have a leadership and
management consulting company.
It's the premier leadership and management consulting company.
Did I say that?
Yes,
I did.
Echelon Front me,
Lafe j p Dave Burke.
If you want us to come and work with your company and get your leadership
aligned
and get your leadership into destroy your mode,
email info national on front.com and if you have any more questions or answers
for us or something that you want to tell us,
you can find us on the interwebs,
on Twitter,
on Instagram,
and on the face.
She ball echo is an echo.
Charles and I am at Jocko Willink and to the soldiers,
sailors,
airmen and Marines who are overseas right now.
Okay.
Defending our nation and our freedom.
Thank you for your sacrifice and to the families of those men and women.
Thanks for supporting it,
your warriors while they are deployed.
Okay.
That is one of the hardest jobs in the world and thank you for doing it.
And to the police,
law enforcement,
firefighters,
paramedics,
and other first responders.
Thank you for protecting us here at home.
You do not get thanked enough.
I'm thanking you right now.
Okay.
And for the rest of you out there,
okay.
Maneuvering through life,
trying to get the upper hand on the enemy or the competitive door,
or trying to get the upper hand and get control of yourself.
You know what to do.
You know what action to take.
You know how to win.
So get out there and get after it.
Okay.
So until next time,
this is echo and Jocko.
Yeah.
Out.